
The first step for a new Ruby project is to set up your working directory. The name of this directory is unimportant so long as you can find it easily.
- Some tools have trouble with directory names, so restrict the name to just letters, digits and underscores.
- Avoid using spaces.

## What is a Project?

We'll use the term project pretty loosely in this lesson.

A **project** is simply a collection of one or more files used to develop, test, build and distribute software.
- The software may be an executable program, a library module, or a combination of programs and library files.

The project itself includes the source code (not only Ruby source code, but any language used by the project) tests, assets, HTML files, databases, configuration files and more.

To aid developers moving from one project to another, most Ruby-based projects follow standard patterns: certain files and directories must be present, certain types of data are stored in certain locations, and some data must be presented in well-defined formats, etc.

The most common standard for Ruby projects is the Rubygems standard.

## Walkthrough: Setting Up Your Project

First create a remote repo on GitHub named `todolist_project.git` . Don't close your browser after doing this, leave it open at the Quick Setup page.

Next, create a directory on your local filesystem where you will do your work:

```
mkdir todolist_project
cd todolist_project
```

You can now run the commands from the "...or create a new repository on he command line box" on the Quick Setup page:

```
echo "# todolist_project" >> README.md
git init
git add README.md
git commit -m "Initial commit"
git branch -M main
git remote add origin git@github.com:USERNAME/todolist_project.git
git push -u origin main
```

Typically, Ruby projects have a strict organization.
- Developers expect to find a test code in a `test` directory, and Ruby sources files in the `lib` directory.

Create these two directories an store each of the copied files in the proper directory.

```
mkdir lib test
mv todolist_project.rb lib
mv todolist_project_test.rb test
```

You'll need to modify the `require_relative` statement to load the main program. Change the statement within the `todolist_project_test.rb` file to the following:

```ruby
require_relative '../lib/todolist_project'
```

`require_relative` loads files relative to the location of the original file. Since `lib` and `test` are both inside the main project directory, we tell `require_relative` to move up one level (the `..`), then down inside `lib`, and finally to load `todolist_project.rb` .

We now have the basic structure of a typical Ruby project. There are many other directories that you may need.

For instance, web-based programs generally require "assets" like images, JavaScript, and CSS (stylesheets) -- these often reside in an `assets` directory with a subdirectory for each file type: `images`, `javascript`, and `stylesheets` .

HTML "template" files usually reside in a `views` directory. You will see these different types of files in later courses, and will organize your projects in the way most Ruby developers organize things.

Our current project file structure should look like this:

```
todolist_project
├── README.md
├── lib
│   └── todolist_project.rb
└── test
    └── todolist_project_test.rb
```

