
Now we're ready to configure Bundler. Bundler uses a file named `Gemfile` to determine the dependencies of your project.
- The dependencies specified in this file will let other developers know how to run your project.
- It'll come in handy if we must deploy our project to run on another server.
	- It will install all of our dependencies so we can use the project at the new site.

A `Gemfile` typically needs four main pieces of information:

- Where should Bundler look for Rubygems it needs to install?
- Do you need a `.gemspec` file?
- What version of Ruby does your program need? (recommended, not required)
- What Rubygems does your program use?

The first one is typically easy.
- Most projects find Rubygems at the official [Rubygems site](https://rubygems.org/).

You provide this information in your `Gemfile` with this statement:

```
source 'https://rubygems.org'
```

For now, we don't want a `.gemspec` file (we'll add one later). Since Bundler checks for a `.gemspec` file when the `Gemfile` contains a `gemspec` statement, we don't have to do anything her.

However, if we did have a `.gemspec` file, you should include the `gemspec` statement so Bundler knows to use it.

The Ruby version is a bit harder. You must decide whether you want to support an older version of Ruby or a more recent version.
- Ideally, you should support the newest versions, but this isn't always possible.
	- Some users may need to use older versions.

A typical Ruby version specification looks like this:

```
ruby '3.1.0'
```

This code tells Bundler that we want to use version 3.1.0.
- We'll use this version or the rest of this assignment to practice using multiple Rubies.
- Add the above line to our `Gemfile` . 

Lastly, we must decide which Gems our program needs. The easiest way to do this is to examine the `require` statements in your code.
- Need to examine all our code, even code that we run only during development, such as test.
- It isn't always evident what Gem a particular `require` file loads.
	- May need to search your Gem directories to determine which Gem you use.

A look through our source code files in the `lib` and `test` directories reveals the following `reqire`s : 

- `require minitest/autorun`
- `require minitest/reporters`

It's not clear from looking at these statements, but they use the "minitest", and "minitest-reporters" Gems, respectively.

Once we know what Gems we need, list them with `gem` statements:

```
gem 'minitest', '~> 5.10'
gem 'minitest-reporters', '~> 1.1'
```

Note that we specify version numbers for our Gems using the same syntax as the `ruby` statement.
- `~> 5.10` tells Bundler that we want a version of at least 5.10 of minitest, but prior to version 6.0.
	- Thus, 5.10.0, 5.11.7 and 5.12.10 will be okay, but not version 6.0.0 or higher.

Depending on your requirements, you can omit the version number, or be more or less specific about the version you want.

The `~>` version info, though, is typically the best choice to prevent version compatibility issues.
- Consult the Bundler documentation for more information on how to specify Gem versions.

Don't forget: if you later add more Gems to your project, you must add them to your `Gemfile` as well. You also must run `bundle install` again if that happens.

## Gemfile for the Todo List Project

Here's what we have so far:

```
source 'https://rubygems.org'

ruby '3.1.0'

gem 'minitest', '~> 5.10'
gem 'minitest-reporters', '~> 1.1'
```

Note that this is Ruby code: it uses a DSL supplied by Bundler.

For god measure, you should also tell RVM or Rbenv to use Ruby 3.1.0, so it agrees with your `Gemfile`. You must be specific about the version:

```
$ rbenv local 3.1.0    # For Rbenv
$ rvm use 3.1.0        # For RVM
```

## Running Bundler

Once your `Gemfile` is complete, tell Bundler to find and install all the project dependencies.

```
$ bundle install
Fetching gem metadata from https://rubygems.org/..................
Resolving dependencies...
Using ansi 1.5.0
Using builder 3.2.4
Using bundler 2.1.4
Fetching minitest 5.14.0
Installing minitest 5.14.0
Using ruby-progressbar 1.10.1
Using minitest-reporters 1.4.2
Bundle complete! 2 Gemfile dependencies, 6 gems now installed.
Use `bundle info [gemname]` to see where a bundled gem is installed.
```

Bundler installed 5 Gems in our example: ansi, builder, minitest, ruby-progressbar, and minitest-reporters. 
- Though we don't list these Gems in our `Gemfile`, the Gems we do list each have their own `Gemfile`, which in turn identifies *their* dependencies.
	- Our project's dependencies have dependencies.
	- By recursively scanning the `Gemfile`s for each Gem, Bundler builds a complete dependency list that identifies all the Gems our app needs.
- Once Bundler has the dependency list, it install any Gems that are not yet part of your Ruby installation.

`bundle install` also creates a `Gemfile.lock` file that contains all the dependency information for your app:

```
GEM
  remote: https://rubygems.org/
  specs:
    ansi (1.5.0)
    builder (3.2.4)
    minitest (5.14.0)
    minitest-reporters (1.4.2)
      ansi
      builder
      minitest (>= 5.0)
      ruby-progressbar
    ruby-progressbar (1.10.1)

PLATFORMS
  ruby

DEPENDENCIES
  minitest (~> 5.10)
  minitest-reporters (~> 1.1)

RUBY VERSION
   ruby 3.1.0

BUNDLED WITH
   2.1.4
```

When you update your `Gemfile`, you should rerun `bundle install` to force an update to `Gemfile.lock`.

Lastly, we must tell each Ruby program in our project to use Bundler.
- To do this, add the following line to all the main program files

```
require 'bundler/setup'
```

This must be placed before any other `require` statements to ensure that your `Gemfile` is complete.
- If you try to load a Gem that isn't in the `Gemfile`, `bundler/setup` prevents Ruby from finding the file.

Try running the tests:

```
"---- Today's Todos ----\n[ ] Buy milk\n[ ] Clean room\n[ ] Go to gym\n[ ] Study for exam\n[ ] Take dog for walk"
Started with run options --seed 7288

  21/21: [===============================================================================================================================] 100% Time: 00:00:00, Time: 00:00:00

Finished in 0.00830s
21 tests, 33 assertions, 0 failures, 0 errors, 0 skips
```

## Don't Get Confused

It's easy to see the names `Gemfile` and `Gemfile.lock` and think that these files must be part of Rubygems.
- Bundler uses both files
	- It depends on `Gemfile` to provide information on the Gems your project uses and creates `Gemfile.lock` based on that.

If you ever create your own Rubygem, you will probably use Bundler, but you don't have to.
- Hence you don't need `Gemfile` or `Gemfile.lock` to create a Rubygem.

Our current project file structure should now look like this:

```
todolist_project
├── Gemfile
├── Gemfile.lock
├── README.md
├── lib
│   └── todolist_project.rb
└── test
    └── todolist_project_test.rb
```
