
Let's add a simple due date to the `Todo` class, and arrange for `Todo#to_s` to include a formatted copy of the date when one is present.

### Add a "due_date" attribute

Let's add a setter and getter method to the `Todo` class for an instance variable named `@due_date`, then add some tests to test that the getter and setter work.

Add `:due_date` to the `attr_accessor` method call in `/lib/todolist_project.rb` .

```ruby
class Todo
  attr_accessor :title, :description, :done, :due_date
end
```

Your tests should ensure that Todos don't have a due date until the setter assigns one, and that you can retrieve the same due date passed to the setter when you call the getter.

Update `TodoListTest` in `/test/todolist_project_test.rb` :

```ruby
require 'date'

class TodoListTest < MiniTest::Test
  def test_no_due_date
    assert_nil(@todo1.due_date)
  end

  def test_due_date
    due_date = Date.today + 3
    @todo2.due_date = due_date
    assert_equal(due_date, @todo2.due_date)
  end
end
```

This should output the following when you run the program:

```
$ ruby test/todolist_project_test.rb
Started with run options --seed 48813

  22/22: [=================================] 100% Time: 00:00:00, Time: 00:00:00

Finished in 0.01035s
22 tests, 38 assertions, 0 failures, 0 errors, 0 skips
```

### Formatting

When there's a due date for a Todo, we should include that date when we use `Todo#to_s` to format the Todo object as a string.
- If there is no due date, `#to_s` should format Todos identical to the original code.
- When a due date is present, it should add the due date to the end of the string in this format:

```
(Due: Friday January 6)
```

There are several date formatting Gems that operate at a higher level. One such Gem is the [stamp](https://github.com/jeremyw/stamp) Gem.
- All you need to do is show the program an example of what you want the date to look like.
- Take a moment to read the documentation.

Modify our code, starting with the main program.


### Bundler and the New Gem

When you try to run your tests now, it should fail with an error message.

Using the information we've learned up to this point, try to fix this with the information you've learned so far.

My Solution - Add the following line to the `Gemfile` and then run `bundle install` :

```
require 'stamp'
```