
### A Simple Rakefile

Create a `Rakefile` in your Todo List Manager project's top-level directory and fill it with the following content:

```ruby
desc 'Say hello'
task :hello do
  puts "Hello there. This is the 'hello' task"
end
```

`Rakefile` uses a DSL (Domain Specific Language) supplied by Rake.
- But it is just basic Ruby code.

The code above defines a **task** named with the symbol `:hello` .
- When the task runs, it displays a message.

The `desc` statement attaches a description of 'Say hello' to the task.
- You can see this description when you list the tasks in the file.

Since we're now adding Rake to the project, we need to add it to our `Gemfile` and then run `bundle install` again.

We can now run the following command:

```
$ bundle exec rake -T
rake hello # Say hello
```

There are 4 things we need to note:

1. We used `bundle exec rake` instead of just `rake`; you should use `bundle exec rake` whenever you use Rake with a project that uses Bundler.
2. `bundle exec rake -T` displays a list of all tasks associated with your `Rakefile`. Note that it prints the task name without the colon ( `:` )
3. The command displays all the known tasks (just `hello` in this example) with their descriptions from the `desc` statement.
4. Although you use `bundle exec rake` to run the `rake` command, Rake itself is not a component of Bundler. We use `bundle exec` just to make sure we're using the Bundler environment with any code we run from the `Rakefile` .


Try running the `:hello` task with the following command:

```
$ bundle exec rake hello
Hello there. This is the 'hello' task.
```

We again use `bundle exec rake` since the project uses Bundler. We also omit the ( `:` ) when we specify the task name ( `hello` ).
- The code in the `task :hello` block runs, and outputs the string.

### Running Tests

A common task with almost all projects is to run the tests associated with the project to make sure everything still works after some code change.

Let's add the following task to the `Rakefile` : 

```ruby
desc 'Run tests'
task :test do
	sh 'ruby ./test/todolist_project_test.rb'
end
```

When we run the following `$ bundle exec rake test` , we get the following output:

```
ruby ./test/todolist_project_test.rb
"---- Today's Todos ----\n[ ] Buy milk\n[ ] Clean room\n[ ] Go to gym\n[ ] Study for exam\n[ ] Take dog for walk"
Started with run options --seed 56997

  24/24: [================================] 100% Time: 00:00:00, Time: 00:00:00

Finished in 0.00895s
24 tests, 36 assertions, 0 failures, 0 errors, 0 skips
```

We can see that Rake ran our tests.
- It did so because the block passed to `task :test` in the `Rakefile` invokes the `sh` method (a Rake method) to run the command `ruby ./test/todolist_project_test.rb` .

If you find that you run one particular task often, you can set it up as the default task.

```ruby
desc 'Run tests'
task :default => :test
```

Add the above to your `Rakefile` .With this, you should now see `rake default` in the output of `bundle exec rake -T` , and when you run `rake` with no parameters, you'll see your tests run.


### Standard Tasks

Using `sh` to run your tests manually isn't ideal. If you add more test files later in the project, you don't want to update your `Rakefile` if you can avoid it (the less updating you do, the better).

Fortunately, there is a better way.
- Tell `rake/testtask` to build the list of tests for you.

Change the `Rakefile` to look like this:

```ruby
require "rake/testtask"

desc 'Say hello'
task :hello do
  puts "Hello there. This is the 'hello' task."
end

desc 'Run tests'
task :default => :test

Rake::TestTask.new(:test) do |t|
  t.libs << "test"
  t.libs << "lib"
  t.test_files = FileList['test/**/*_test.rb']
end
```

The code in the `Rake::TestTask.new` block tells `rake/testtask` that our tests and source code reside in the `test` and `lib` directories, and that all your test files reside in the `test` directory, and have a name that ends with `_test.rb` . 

When you run `bundle exec rake test` now, `rak/testtask` will load and run all the `*_test.rb` files it can find in the `test` directory or any of its subdirectories.
- Now you just have to add new test files whenever you need them.

```
$ bundle exec rake -T
rake default  # Run tests
rake hello    # Say hello
rake test     # Run tests

$ bundle exec rake test
Started with run options --seed 20139

  23/23: [=================================] 100% Time: 00:00:00, Time: 00:00:00

Finished in 0.00229s
23 tests, 39 assertions, 0 failures, 0 errors, 0 skips
```


There are many more standard tasks that you can `require` into your `Rakefile` . 
- See the [Rake documentation](https://ruby.github.io/rake/) for more information.
- Check the list of available tasks that you can include.
- You will also find Rake tasks available as part of other Gems or even as independent gems.
	- E.g., Bundler provides a `bundler/gem_tasks` module that defines some common tasks related to building Gems.

### Exercise

Add a task to your Rakefile that lasts every file in your project except those whose names begin with `.`  and those that reside in a directory whose name begins with `.` . 

You can use `Find::find` from the Ruby standard library. You will also need `File#file?` to test whether a name in `Find.find` 's block is a file or a directory.

My Solution:

```ruby
task :list_files do
  files = []
  Find.find("/home/nickperry12/launch_school/todolist_project/") do |path|
    next if path.include?('/.')
    if File.file?(path)
      files << path unless path.start_with?('.')
    end
  end
  puts files
end
```

## Don't Get Confused

It's important to realize that Rake is an ordinary Rubygem
- You don't need to construct Ruby projects, create, create your own Rubygems, or to use Bundler.

It's an independent program used solely to automate common tasks. It's likely that you'll create a `Rakefile` for every project, but you don't need one, nor do you need o create one just because you're creating a Rubygem or using Bundler.

It's a good idea to capture common tasks related to your project using Rake, but it's not mandatory.

Our current project file structure should now look like this:

```
todolist_project
├── Gemfile
├── Gemfile.lock
├── README.md
├── Rakefile
├── lib
│   └── todolist_project.rb
└── test
    └── todolist_project_test.rb
```