
Most Ruby projects use Rubygems as the distribution mechanism.
- Requires you to observe certain practices when building your project.
	- Specifically, must use a common directory structure and you must supply a `.gemspec` file.

Most Gems also include both a `Gemfile` and a `Rakefile` , but don't require them.

We've been using the Rubygems layout in this lesson.
- We've put our main source code in he `lib` directory.
- Our tests are in the `test` directory.
- We've set up a `Gemfile` and a `Rakefile` .

When you're ready to prepare your project for distribution, you should investigate requirements for Rubygems.
- We can find useful information in the [Rubygems documentation](http://guides.rubygems.org/)
	- It provides the details you'll need to finish preparing your project as a Rubygem.

The steps required include:

1. Read the documentation.
2. Prepare any additional directories that you need.
3. Prepare a `README.md` file.
4. Write documentation if necessary.
5. Prepare your `.gemspec` file. Note that the actual `.gemspec` file has a name like `project.gemspec` , where "project" is your project name.
6. Add a `gemspec` statement to your `Gemfile`. 

```
gemspec
```

7. Modify your `Rakefile` to include standard Rubygem tasks. See below.

## A Simple .gemspec

The following shows a simple `.gemspec` file for our Todo List Manager project:

```ruby
Gem::Specification.new do |s|
  s.name        = 'todolist_project'
  s.version     = '1.0.0'
  s.summary     = 'Todo List Manager!'
  s.description = 'This is a simple todo list manager!'
  s.authors     = ['Pete Williams']
  s.email       = 'pw@example.com'
  s.homepage    = 'http://example.com/todolist_project'
  s.files       = ['lib/todolist_project.rb', 'test/todolist_project_test.rb']
end
```

The name of this file is `todolist_project.gemspec` .

## Modify Your Rakefile

Add the following statement near the top of your `Rakefile` :

```ruby
require "bundler/gem_tasks"
```

The `bundler/gem_tasks` require file adds several tasks to your Rakefile that are common to Rubygems.
- It defines these tasks (don't forget to use `bundle exec` )

1. `rake build` : Constructs `.gem` file in the `pkg` directory. This file contains the actual Rubygem that you will distribute.
2. `rake install` : runs `rake build` then installs the program in your Ruby's Gem directory. This way, you can test the Gem without having to load information from your project directory.
3. `rake release` : Send your `.gem` file to the remote Rubygems library for the world to download.

`bundler/gem_tasks` provides several additional tasks, but `build` , `install` , and `release` are the most important.

Our current project file structure should now look like this:

```
todolist_project
├── todolist_project.gemspec
├── Gemfile
├── Gemfile.lock
├── README.md
├── Rakefile
├── lib
│   └── todolist_project.rb
└── test
    └── todolist_project_test.rb
```
