
In this lesson, we went over the Core Ruby Tools book, and walked trough setting up a simple Ruby application as a Rubygem.
- We didn't take this all the way to the release stage, you know enough to follow the directions on the Rubygems website to package and release your game.

Remember the following details:

- Rubygems provide a library of code that you can download and run or use directly inside your Ruby programs.
	- You use the `gem` command to manage the Gems you need.
- Rubygems also provide the mechanisms you need to release your own Gems, which can either be packages of code you `require` into your Ruby programs, or independent Ruby programs that you can run (e.g., the `bundle` program from the Bundler gem.)
- Ruby projects usually use the Rubygems format.
- Ruby Version Managers help you manage multiple versions of Ruby on a single system.
	- Each version has its own set of tools such as the `gem` and `bundle` commands.
- Bundler provides the tools you need to describe the dependencies for your Ruby programs.
	- This makes it easy to distribute your program to other systems
		- Bundler installs all necessary components, and even ensures that the program uses the correct version of each Gem.
- Rake provides a way to easily manage and run repetitive tasks that a developer needs when working on a project.
- The `.gemspec` file provides information about a Gem. If you decide to release a program or a library as a Gem, you must include a `.gemspec` file.
- If you run into problems, consult the Core Ruby Tools book.