
What's the point of implementing our own `TodoList#each` method?
- Can't we just expose the `@todos` array and let users of our class iterate through that array directly?

```ruby
list.todos.each do |todo|
	# here we can do anything to each Todo object
end
```

Look carefully at the difference between the two method calls.
- It's `list.each` vs `list.todos.each`
- In the first case we're calling `TodoList#each`, whereas in the second case we're calling `Array#each` 

In most cases, we prefer to work with the `TodoList` object directly and invoke method calls on `list`
- We would rather not access an internal state of the `TodoList`, which in this case is `@todos`
	- This is the idea behind **encapsulation**: we want to hide implementation details from the users of the `TodoList` class, and not encourage users of this class to reach into its internal state
	- Instead, we want to encourage users of the class to use the interfaces (ie, public methods) we created for them.

For example, when we add a new todo into the list, we would rather use `TodoList#add`, rather than work with the `TodoList#todos` getter method and modify the array.
- This is because our `TodoList` class includes a rule: don't allow any item into the list that's not a `Todo` object.
	- We enforce this rule in `TodoList#add` 
		- If we bypass this method, then that rule isn't being enforced

Likewise, we prefer to use `TodoList#each` over reaching into the `@todos` array.

Suppose later on we no longer want the internal representation to be an array
- In that case, we' need a different mechanism to iterate over the items in `TodoList` -- it can't be `Array#each`
	- Internal to the `TodoList` class, all we have to do is change the `TodoList#each` method
		- Users of the `TodoList` class shouldn't feel any change at all if they use `TodoList#each`
		- That method will still behave the same to users of the `TodoList` class; it will still iterate through the items, yielding each `Todo` object at every iteration
		- If users of the `TodoList` class had instead reached into the `@todos` variable directly, then their code will break
		- Since `todos` is no longer an `Array`, this code may no longer work: `list.todos.each { |todo| }`

The entire goal of creating a class and encapsulating logic in a class is to hide implementation details and contain ripple effects when things change.
- Prefer to use the class's interface where possible.