
Let's revisit local variable scope

## A Refresher

Recall that previously we were asked to memorize local variable scope in terms of *inner* and *outer* scope
- Determined by here the local variable was initialized

A block creates a new scope for local variables, and only outer local variables are accessible to inner blocks

Example:

```ruby
level_1 = "outer-most variable"

[1, 2, 3].each do |n|                     # block creates a new scope
  level_2 = "inner variable"

  ['a', 'b', 'c'].each do |n2|            # nested block creates a nested scope
    level_3 = "inner-most variable"

    # all three level_X variables are accessible here
  end

  # level_1 is accessible here
  # level_2 is accessible here
  # level_3 is not accessible here

end

# level_1 is accessible here
# level_2 is not accessible here
# level_3 is not accessible here
```

Remember that this is only for *local variables*
- Always look at where the local variable was initialized to determine its scope, and to verify that it's indeed a local variable we're dealing with and not a method
	- If it's a method it doesn't follow this rule

## Closure and binding

A block is how Ruby implements the idea of a *closure*, which is a general computing concept of a "chunk of code" that you can pass around and execute at some later time

Think about that:
- an unnamed "chunk of code" being passed around in your codebase
	- In order for this "chunk of code" to be executed later, it must understand the surrounding context from where it was defined

In Ruby, this "chunk of code", or closure, is represented by a `Proc` object, a lambda, or a block.

Example:

```ruby
name = "Robert"
chunk_of_code = Proc.new { puts "hi #{name}"}
```

If you try to run that code, nothing apparent will happen,
- We've created a `Proc` and saved it to `chunk_of_code`, but haven't executed it yet.
- We can now pass around this variable and execute it at any time later.

Suppose we have a method, and we pass the `chunk_of_code` `Proc` into that method
- The method then executes the `Proc`
- Think it through, and take a guess at what would happen

Guess:

We pass in the `chunk_of_code` variable into the method, where we then execute the code contained within it. 

Because closures bind it's surrounding artifacts, which in this case will be the variable and the string it is initialized to, the method should output the string `"Robert"`. 

The output and the return value of the above is:

```
hi Robert
=> nil
```

Note that the `Proc` identified by `some_code` knew how to handle `puts #{name}`, and, specifically, that it knew how to process the `name` variable.
- How did it do that?

The `name` variable was initialized *outside* of the method definition, and we know, that in Ruby, local variables initialized outside the method aren't accessible inside the method.

So again, how did that code we passed in know how to process the `name` variable?

Maybe that `Proc` was processed somehow?
- Let's run an experiment to test that theory

We'll use the same code, except we'll reassign the `name` variable *after* the `Proc` has been initialized.
- Let's see if the chunk of code retains its old value of `"Robert"` or our new value of `"Griffin III"` .

```ruby
def call_me(some_code)
	some_code.call
end

name = "Robert"
chunk_of_code = Proc.new { puts "hi #{name}" }
name = "Griffin III"

call_me(chunk_of_code)
```

Guess:

It will output `"hi Robert"` 
- It does so because it doesn't just bind to the variable name, it's binding to the value it initialized to as well

The output:

```
hi Griffin III
=> nil
```

Whoa.

The `Proc` is aware of the new value even though the variable was reassigned after the `Proc` was defined.
- This implies that the `Proc` keeps track of it's surrounding context, and drags it around wherever the chunk of code is passed to

In Ruby, we call this it's **binding**, or surrounding environment/context.

A closure must keep track of it's binding to have all the information it needs to be executed later.
- This not only includes local variables, but also method references, constants and other artifacts in your code
	- Whatever it needs to execute it correctly, it will drag all of it around

This is why code like the above works fine, seemingly violating the variable scoping rules we learned earlier.

Note that any local variables that need to be accessed by a closure must be defined *before* the closure is created, unless the local variable is explicitly passed to the closure when it is called
- E.g., `some_proc.call(some_varbiable)`

In the code from the last example, removing `name = "Robert"` would change the binding of the `Proc` object
- `name` would no longer be in scope since it is initialized only after the `Proc` is instantiated

Bindings and closures are the core of variable scoping rules in Ruby.
- It's why "inner scopes can access outer scopes"

The point of this assignment is to show that how Ruby implements closures is at the core of how variable scope works.
- Therefore, it's at the core of how Ruby itself works.