
When working with collections, we often want to transform all items in that collection.
- E.g., we have an array of integers and we want to transform every element in the array into strings

```ruby
[1, 2, 3, 4, 5].map do |num|
	num.to_s
end

# => ['1', '2', '3', '4', '5']
```

We get a returned array, where every element is now a string.
- This type of code is so common, that there's a shortcut for it

```ruby
[1, 2, 3, 4, 5].map(&:to_s)
```

The above code iterates through each element and calls `to_s` on it.
- A new array is returned after iterating
	- We can chain methods because of this

```ruby
[1, 2, 3, 4, 5].map(&:to_s).map(&:to_i)
```

Note that the `&` must be followed by a symbol name for a method that can be invoked on each element.

Suppose you want to use `String#prepend` to prepend each value with `The number is: `.
- We wouldn't be able to use this shortcut because it doesn't work for methods that take arguments

This will work for any collection method that takes a block.

```ruby
["hello", "world"].each(&:upcase!)
[1, 2, 3, 4, 5].select(&:odd)
[1, 2, 3, 4, 5].select(&:odd).any?(&:even?)
```

## Symbol#to_proc

If you look closely, somehow this code:

```ruby
(&:to_s)
```

…gets converted to this code:

```ruby
{ |n| n.to_s }
```

What's the mechanism at work here?

Although it's related to the use of `&` with explicit blocks, this is something else because we're not working with explicit blocks here.
- Explicit blocks can be identified by looking out for an `&` in the parameter list for a method

Instead, we're applying the `&` operator to an object (possibly referenced by a variable), and when this happens, Ruby tries to convert the object to a block.
- This is easy if the object is a `Proc` - converting a `Proc` to a block is something that Ruby can do naturally.
- However, if the object is not already a `Proc`, we have to first convert it to a `Proc`.
	- In this case, we call `#to_proc` on the object, which returns a `Proc`
- Ruby can then convert the resulting `Proc` to a block

In the example above, this is what is happening:

- `&to_s` tells Ruby to convert the Symbol `:to_s` to a block
- Since `:to_s` is not a `Proc`, Ruby first calls `Symbol#to_proc` to convert the symbol to a `Proc`
- Now it is a `Proc`, Ruby then converts this `Proc` to a block

Here are some examples of this mechanism at work. The first example will do the 2 first steps above in one line

```ruby
def my_method
	yield(2)
end

# turns the symbol into a Proc, then & turns the Proc into a block
my_method(&:to_s) # => "2"
```

The code below will try and break up the 2 steps:

```ruby
def my_method
	yield(2)
end

a_proc = :to_s.to_proc # explicitly call to_proc on the symbol
my_method(&a_proc) # convert Proc into a block, then pass block in. Returns "2"
```

## Summary

The main concept you have to know is that you can use a shortcut when calling methods with blocks by using the symbol-to-proc trick.
- Understand that there's some depth behind the syntax, and try to wrap your head around it
- Understanding `Symbol#to_proc` is not on the critical path, but it's important to be aware where to look this up again in the future.