
Up to this point we've seen block when using them with methods such as `each`, for example:

```ruby
[1, 2, 3].each do |num|
	puts num
end
```

We're invoking the `each` method while passing in `do..end` block and some code within the block. Let's take a closer look at this code.

The object we're working with is an `Array` object

```ruby
[1, 2, 3]
```

The method we're calling on that object is `Array#each` :

```ruby
.each
```

The part that's the **block** is the `do..end` part:

```ruby
	do |num|
		puts num
	end
```

It's important to be able to take apart the simple code at the top into the 3 outlined pieces above.
- Sometimes the block of code can be large
	- Don't let this confuse you, the method being called is still `Array#each` in this case
	- The block is an argument to the method call
	- In this example, we're passing in the block of code to the `Array#each` method.

#### What can you do within a block?

Let's take a look at a few places where blocks are commonly used.

```ruby
# Examlpe 1: passing in a block to the `Integer#times` method

3.times do |num|
	puts num
end

# => 3

# Example 2: passing a block to the `Array#map` method.

[1, 2, 3].map do |num|
	num + 1
end
# => [2, 3, 4]

# Example 3: passing in a block to the `Hash#select` method

{ a: 1, b: 2, c: 3, d: 4, e: 5 }.select do |_, value|
	value > 2
end

# => { c: 3, d: 4, e: 5 }
```

Look at the examples carefully.

Specifically look at

1. The code written in the blocks
2. The return value of the method invocations

In Example 1, invoking the `Integer#times` method returns the calling object `3`, completely ignoring what we wrote in the block.

In Example 2, the return value of calling `Array#map` is a new array, with the values manipulated according to the return value of the code block.

In Example 3, the return value is a new hash, with the key-value pairs selected have a value greater than 2. 

Why is it that sometimes the code in the block affects the return value, and sometimes not?
- The answer lies in how these methods are implemented
- The code we wrote in the block is not the method implementation
- The block and it's contents are passed into the method like any other argument, and it's up to the method implementation to decide *what* to do with the block passed in.

Key takeaway: Blocks are just another argument that is passed into a method.