
Every method we have ever written in Ruby already takes a block.

Example:

```ruby
def hello
	"hello!"
end

hello # => "hello!"
```

This is as simple as methods get. If we try and call this method with an argument, we'll get an `ArgumentError` thrown, which makes sense.
- When we defined it, we defined it without parameters

What happens when we try and pass in a block?

```ruby
hello { puts "hi" } # => "hello!"
```

What happened here?

This is unexpected as we're passing in a block as an argument. So why is no error thrown?
- In Ruby, every method can take an optional block as an implicit argument.
- Can tack it on at the end of the method invocation like we did above.

More examples:

```ruby
def echo(str)
  str
end

echo                    # ArgumentError: wrong number of arguments (0 for 1)
echo("hello!")          # => "hello!"
echo("hello", "world!") # ArgumentError: wrong number of arguments (2 for 1)

# this time, called with an implicit block
echo { puts "world" }                    # ArgumentError: wrong number of arguments (0 for 1)
echo("hello!") { puts "world" }          # => "hello!"
echo("hello", "world!") { puts "world" } # ArgumentError: wrong number of arguments (2 for 1)
```

This makes it seem as if the block wasn't being passed to the method. How can we be sure that the method actually has access to the block?

## Yielding

One way that we can invoke the passed-in block argument from within the method is by using the `yield` keyword.

Let's modify the `echo` method implementation and yield to the block.

```ruby
def echo_with_yield(str)
	yield
	str
end
```

Let's run the same three examples from above on this new method

```ruby
echo_with_yield { puts "world" } # ArgumentError
echo_with_yield("hello") { puts "world"} # world
# hello

# => "hello"

echo_with_yield("hello", "world") { puts "world" } # ArgumentError
```

Why did the first and last method call throw an error?
- The first method call requires an argument to be passed in
- The last method call has too many arguments being passed in

The second method call (the one with a string argument as well as a block) did what we expected.
- It printed out the string "world" and then returned the string "hello!"

Seeing these results tells us two things:

1. The number of arguments at method invocation needs to match the method definition, regardless of whether we are passing in a block
2. The `yield` keyword executes the block

The second point means that when you read a method's implementation, that's not the end of the story
- If your method implementation contains a `yield`, a developer using your method can come in after this method is fully implemented and inject additional code in the middle of this method (without modifying the implementation), by passing in a block
- This is one of the major use cases of using blocks

Let's take a look at a common edge case. Let's continue using our `echo_with_yield` method but instead call it like this:

```ruby
echo_with_yield("hello") # LocalJumpError: no block given
```

The error is thrown because no block was given in the presence of `yield` within our method.

In order to allow calling the method with or without a block, we must somehow wrap the `yield` call in a conditional
- Only call `yield` when a block is passed to the method
- How do we achieve this?
	- With the `Kernel#block_given?` method

Let's modify our implementation:

```ruby
def echo_with_yield(str)
	yield if block_given?
	str
end
```

Now, we can call `echo_with_yield` with or without a block.
- If a block is passed in, `block_given?` will return `true` and our code will `yield` to the block (i.e., execute the block of the code)
- If no block is passed in, `block_given?` returns `false` and the method will only return `str` 

```ruby
echo_with_yield("hello!") # => "hello!"
echo_with_yield("hello!") { puts world } 
# "world"
# => "hello!"
```

## Passing Execution to the block

We can now examine more closely the sequence of code execution when yielding to a block

Example:

```ruby
# method implementation

def say(words)
	yield if block_given?
	puts "> " + words
end

# method invocation

say("hi there") do
	system 'clear'
end # clears screen first, then outputs "> hi there"
```

Let's trace the execution:

1. Execution starts at the method invocation on line 8. The `say` method is invoked with two arguments: a string and a block (the block is an implicit parameter and not part of the method definition)
2. Execution goes to line 2, where the method local variable `words` is assigned to the string `"hi there"`. the block is passed in implicitly, without being assigned to a variable.
3. Execution continues into the first line of the method implementation, line 3, which immediately yields to the bock.
4. The block, line 9, is now executes, which clears the screen.
5. After the block is done executing, execution continues in the method implementation on line 4. Executing line 4 results in the output being displayed.
6. The method ends, which means the last expression's value is returned by this method.
7. The last expression in the method invokes the `puts` method, returning `nil`.

Execution went like this:

```ruby
line 8 -> line 2 -> line 3 -> line 9 -> line 4 -> line 5
```

Notice the jump after line 3:
- Execution jumps to *somewhere else*, then comes ack to finish the rest of the method
- Very similar to calling a method, except here we're calling a block
	- This is why it's sometimes useful to think of a block as an un-named or anonymous method.


## Yielding with an argument

There are times where the block we pass in requires an argument.
- Note that the block itself is an argument.
	- Passing in an argument to an argument adds an additional layer of complexity
	- However, we've been already been doing this

```ruby
3.times do |num|
	puts num
end
```

This should be familiar, but we'll take it apart anyway

```ruby
3
```

The `3` is the calling object.

```ruby
.times
```

The `times` is the method being called.

```ruby
	      do |num|
	puts num
end
```

And the `do..end` is the bock. 

The `num` variable between the two `|`'s is a parameter for the block, or more simply, a block parameter.
- Within the block, `num` is a local block variable.
	- This is a special type of local variable where the scope is constrained to the block

It's important to make sure the block parameter has a unique name and doesn't conflict with any local variables outside of the scope of the block.
- If we don't we may encounter variable shadowing

Let's write our own method that takes a block with an argument.
- Suppose we want to write a method called `increment` that takes a number as an argument, and returns the argument incremented by 1.
- At implementation time, we don't want to output the incremented number
	- Not sure how users will use this method
	- The only thing we can be sure of is that the method should take an argument and return the argument plus 1.

```ruby
# method implementation
def increment(number)
	number + 1
end

# method invocation
increment(5)      # => 6
```

This is a simple method where the invocation returns `6`.
- But, we want to allow users to possibly take some action on the newly incremented number at method invocation time.
	- Maybe some users want to print it out or others want to log it to a file, or send it to Twitter.
- We want to allow for some flexibility at method usage or invocation time.
	- Blocks are perfect for this.

Let's update the implementation to yield to a block, and pass in the incremented number into the block:

```ruby
# method implementation
def increment(number)
	if block_given?
		yield(number + 1)
	end
	number + 1
end

# method invocation
increment(5) do |num|
	puts num
end
```

This will output `6`. 

Note the use of the `block_given?` method, allowing us to continue to call the method without a block.

Let's trace the code execution in this snippet:

1. Execution starts at the method invocation on line 10
2. Execution moves to the method implementation on line 2, which sets `5` to the local variable `number`, and the block is not set to any variable; it's just implicitly available
3. Execution continues on line 3, which is a conditional
4. Our method invocation has indeed passed in a block, so the conditional is true, moving execution to line 4
5. On line 4, execution is yielded to the block (or the block is called), and we're passing `number + 1` to the block. This means we're calling the block with `6` as the block argument.
6. Execution jumps to line 10, where the parameter `num` is assigned `6`.
7. Execution continues to line 11, where we output the block local variable `num`.
8. Execution continues to line 12 where the end of the block is reached
9. Execution now jumps back to the method implementation, where we just finished executing line 4.
10. Execution continues to line 5, the end of the `if`.
11. Line 6 returns the value of the incremented argument to line 10.
12. The program ends (the return value of `#increment` is not used)

The sequence of execution looks like this:

```
line 10 → line 2 → line 3 → line 4 → line 10 → line 11 → line 12 → line 4 → line 5 → line 6 → line 10 → program ends
```

Once again, calling a block is almost like calling another method. In this case, we're even passing an argument to the block, just like we could for any normal method.

What would happen if you pass in the wrong number of arguments to a block?
- Would it raise an `ArgumentError` ?
- Let's check it out

```ruby
# method implementation

def test
	yield(1, 2)
end

# method invocation
test { |num| puts num } # expecting 1 parameter in block implementation
```

The above code outputs `1`.
- The extra block argument is ignored.
- What if we pass in `1` less block argument than expected, instead of passing in 1 more?

```ruby
# method implementation
def test
	yield(1) # passing 1 block argument at block invocation time
end

# method invocation
test do |num1, num2| # expecting 2 parameters in block implementation
	puts "#{num1} #{num2}"
end
```

This also outputs `1`.
- However, this output is different from the previous one
	- In this case `num2` local block variable is `nil`, so the string interpolation converted that to an empty string, which is why we get `1` (there's an extra space)

The rule regarding the number of arguments that you must pass to a block, `proc` or `lambda` in Ruby is called its ***arity***. 
- In Ruby, blocks and `proc`s have ***lenient arity***, which is why Ruby doesn't complain when you pass in too many or two few arguments to a block
- Methods and `lambda`s have ***strict arity***, which means you must pass the exact number of arguments that the method or `lambda` expects.

Main thing to remember about arity:
- methods enforce the argument count
- blocks do not

## Return value of yielding to the block


Suppose we want to write a method that outputs the before and after of manipulating the argument to the method.

For example, we'd like to invoke a `compare` method that does this:

```ruby
compare('hi') { |word| word.upcase }

# Output:
# Before: hi
# After: HI
```

Let's implement it.

```ruby
def compare(str)
	puts "Before: #{str}"
	after = yield(str)
	puts "After: #{after}"
end

# method invocation
compare("hello") { |word| word.upcase }
```

Output:

```ruby
# Before: hello
# After: HELLO
# => nil
```

From this example, we can see that the `after` local method variable is assigned the return value from the block
- This is another behavior for blocks that's similar to normal methods
	- They have a return value, and that return value is determined by the last expression in the block
- This implies that just like normal methods, blocks can either mutate the argument with a destructive method call or the block can return a value

Just like writing good normal methods, writing good blocks requires you to keep this distinction in mind.
- Note that the last line `=> nil`, is the return value of the `compare` method
	- Unrelated to what we're doing in the block

We could further call this `compare` method with a variety of different block implementations

```ruby
compare("hello") { |word| word.slice(1..2) }

# Before: hello
# After: el
# => nil
```

```ruby
compare('hello') { |word| "nothing to do with anything" }

# Before: hello
# After: nothing to do with anything
# => nil
```

Pay attention to the return value from the block in these two examples.
- This is what the `compare` method implementation is relying on to display in the "After" scenario.

Let's take a look at a slightly trickier example

```ruby
compare("hello") { |word| puts "hi" }

# Before: hello
# hi
# After:
# => nil
```

In this example, the block invocation outputs `"hi"` and returns `nil`. When `nil` is interpolated into a string, it evaluates as an empty string.

## When to use blocks in your own methods

The two main use cases are:

1. Defer some implementation code to method invocation decision

There are two roles involved with any method: the **method implementor** and the **method user** (note that this could be the same person/developer).

There are times when the method implementor is not 100% certain of how the method will be called.
- Maybe the method implementor is 90% certain, but wants to leave that 10% decision up to the method user at method invocation time.

Without using blocks, the method implementor can allow method users to pass in some flag.
- For example, take our `compare` method above. Suppose we don't use blocks. We can still achieve similar functionality, like this:

```ruby
def compare(str, flag)
	after = case flag
			when :upcase
				str.upcase
			when :capitalize
				str.capitalize
			# etc, we could have a lot of when clauses
			end
	puts "Before: #{str}"
	puts "After: #{after}"
end

compare("hello", :upcase)

# Before: hello
# After: HELLO
# => nil
```

This isn't nearly as flexible as providing a way for method users to *refine* the implementation, without actually modifying the method implementation for everyone else.

By using blocks, the implementor can
- defer the decision of which flags to support
- let the user decide at the moment of invocation time

The implementor is basically saying "I don't know what the specifics of your scenario are, so just pass them in when you need to call this method. I'll set it up so that you can refine it later, since you understand your scenario better."

Many of the core library's most useful methods are useful precisely because they are built in a generic sense
- This allows us to refine the method through a block at invocation time
- For example, the `select` method - we can pass in an expression that evaluates to a boolean in the block parameter.
	- This gives us flexibility with the method

If you encounter a scenario where you're calling a method from multiple places, with one little tweak in each case, it may be a good idea to try implementing the method in a generic way by yielding to a block.

2. Methods that need to perform some "before" and "after" actions - sandwich code.

Before and after what?
- This is the point
	- The implementor doesn't care: before and after anything.

Let's look at an example.
- Supposed we want to write a method that outputs how long *something* takes.
- Our method doesn't care what that something is; our method just cares about displaying how long it took.
- The outline could look like this:

```ruby
def time_it
	time_before = Time.now
	# do something
	time_after = Time.now

	puts "It took #{time_after - time_before} seconds"
end
```

The question for the method implementor is: what do we fill in for "do something"?
- The answer is nothing
	- As the implementor, we don't care what code goes there.
		- The responsibility of our method starts and stops at timing the action
		- This is a good use case for blocks
		- By using blocks, we can let method users specify any action, and use our method to time that action

Let's update the method implementation to yield to the block.

```ruby
def time_it
	time_before = Time.now
	yield # execute the implicit block
	time_after = Time.now

	puts "It took #{time_after - time_now} seconds."
end

time_it { sleep(3) }
time_it { "hello world" }
```

We can see that this code does exactly what we want: it times the execution of the code passed into it.

What are useful cases or "sandwich code"?
- Timing
- Logging
- Notification systems

Another area where before/after actions are important is in resource management, or interfacing with the operating system.
- Many OS interfaces require you, the developer, to first allocate a portion of a resource, then perform some clean-up to free up that resource.
- Forgetting to do the clean-up can result in dramatic bugs -- system crashes, memory leaks, file system corruption
- Would be great if we can automate this!

So how can we automate this?
- This is where the `File::open` method comes in handy.
- For example, the typical example for opening a file in Ruby is:

```ruby
my_file = File.open("some_file.txt", "w+")
# write to this file using my_file.write
my_file.close
```

The last line closes the file and releases the `my_file` object from hanging on to system resources -- specifically, the file "soem_file.txt".

Since we always want to close files, `File::open` can also take a block, and will automatically close the file after the block is executed. Using the block syntax, we can do this:

```ruby
File.open("some_file.txt", "w+") do |file|
	# write to this file using file.write
end
```

So what's happening here? Why don't we have to close the file?
- The method implementor of `File::open` opens the file, yields to the block, then closes the file.
- The method user only needs to pass in the relevant file manipulation code in the block without worrying about closing the file.

## Methods with an explicit block parameter

Until now we've passed blocks to a method implicitly. Every method, regardless of it's definition, takes an implicit block.
- It may ignore it, but it still accepts it

However, there are times when you want a method to take an explicit block.

What is an explicit block?
- A block that gets treated as a named object, i.e., it gets assigned to a method parameter so that it can be managed like any other object
	- It can be reassigned, passed to other methods, and invoked many times.

How do we define an explicit block?
- Simply add a parameter to the method definition where the name begins with an `&` character:

```ruby
def test(&block)
	puts "What's &block? #{block}"
end
```

The `&block` is a special parameter that converts the block argument to what we call a "simple" `Proc` object.
- The exact definition of a simple `Proc` object isn't important at this time.

Notice that we drop the `&` when referring to the parameter inside the method.

Let's invoke the method and see what happens:

```ruby
test { sleep(1) }

# What's &block? #<Proc:0x007f98e32b83c8@(irb):59>
# => nil
```

The `block` local method variable is now a `Proc` object.
- Note that we can name it whatever we please; it doesn't have to be `block` , just as long as we define it with a leading `&` .

So what's the point of this? Why do we now need an explicit block instead?
- It provides additional flexibility
	- Before, we didn't have a handle (a variable) for the implicit block, so we couldn't do much with it except yield it and test whether the block was provided
	- Now we have a variable that represents the block, so we can *pass the block to another method*:

```ruby
def test2(block)
	puts "Hello"
	block.call # calls the block that was originally passed to test
	puts "goodbye"
end

def test(&block)
	puts "1"
	test2(block)
	puts "2"
end

test { |prefix| puts "xyz" }
# => 1
# Hello
# xyz
# goodbye
# => 2
```

Note:

We only need to use the `&` for the `block` parameter in `#test`.
- `block` is already a `Proc` object when we call `test2`, no conversion is needed

Another note:

We use `block.call` inside `#test2` to invoke the `Proc` object instead of `yield`. 
- If you wanted to invoke the `Proc` from `#test`, you would do the same thing.

It's not often that you need to pass a block around like this
- The need does still arise
- Need to at least be familiar with the mechanism; you will see it later

You can also pass arguments to the explicit block by using them as arguments to `call`:

```ruby
def display(block)
	block.call(">>>") # passing the prefix argument to the block
end

def test(&block)
	puts "1"
	display(block)
	puts "2"
end

test { |prefix| puts prefix + "xyz" }
# => 1
# >>>xyz
# => 2
```

```
The above discussion of explicit blocks is simplified from reality. Things get a bit more complicated if the user passes in a `Proc` object, a `lambda`, or some other object to a method that takes an explicit block. For now, you just need to know that Ruby converts blocks passed in as explicit blocks to a simple `Proc` object (this is why we need to use `#call` to invoke the `Proc` object).
```

## Using Closures

A very powerful capability in Ruby and many other languages is the ability to pass chunks of code -- closures -- around in a program.
- Closures are formed by blocks, `Proc` objects, and `lambda`s.
- They retain a memory of their surrounding scope and can use and even update variables in that scope when they are executed, even if the block, `Proc` or `lambda` is called from somewhere else.

```ruby
def for_each_in(arr)
	arr.each { |element| yield element }
end

arr = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
results = [0]

for_each_in(arr) do |number|
	total = results[-1] + number
	results.push(total)
end

p results # => [0, 1, 3, 6, 10, 15]
```

Though the block passed to `for_each_in` is invoked from inside `for_each_in`, the block still has access to the `results` array through closure.

Where closures really shine, though, is when a method or block returns a closure.
- We can't return blocks, but we can return `Proc`s
	- We'll demonstrate this with `Proc`s; `lambda`s are very similar, but differ primarily in syntax.

Consider the following code:

```ruby
def sequence
	counter = 0
	Proc.new { counter += 1 }
end

s1 = sequence
p s1.call # 1
p s1.call # 2
p s1.call # 3
puts

s2 = sequence
p s2.call # 1
p s1.call # 4
p s2.call # 2
```

Here the `#sequence` method returns a `Proc` that forms a closure with the local variable `counter`. 
- Subsequently, we can call the return `Proc` repeatedly.
- Each time we do, it increments its own private copy of the `counter` variable. Thus, it returns `1` on the first call, `2` on the second and `3` on the third.

We can also create multiple `Proc`s from `sequence`, and each will have its own independent copy of `counter`. Thus, when we call `sequence` a second time, and assign the return value to `s2`, the `counter` associated with `s2` is separate and independent of the `counter` in `s1`. 

For now, just remember that methods and blocks can return `Proc`s and `lambda`s that can subsequently be called.

## Summary

Whew! That's a lot to digest in one sitting. Let's summarize the main points that you should know up to now about blocks:

- blocks are one way that Ruby implements closures. Closures are a way to pass around an unnamed "chunk of code" to be executed later.
- blocks can take arguments, just like normal methods. But unlike normal methods, it won't complain about the wrong number of arguments being passed to it.
- blocks return a value, just like normal methods.
- blocks are a way to defer some implementation decisions to method invocation time. It allows method users to refine a method at invocation time for a specific use case. It allows method implementors to build generic methods that can be used in a variety of ways.
- blocks are a good use case for "sandwich code" scenarios, like closing a `File` automatically.
- methods and blocks can return a chunk of code by returning a `Proc` or `lambda`.

