
Let's put what we've learned thus far into practice. Let's write our own `times` method that mimics the behavior of the `Integer#times` method.

First, lets study the `Integer#times` method.

```ruby
5.times do |num|
	puts num
end
```

Invoking the `Integer#times` method produces this output:

```
0
1
2
3
4
=> 5
```

Notice that the method's first block argument is `0`, and the last block argument is 1 less than the calling object.

Finally, the method returns the calling object `5`.

Our `times` method will exhibit the same behavior, yielding to the block starting with `0` and going up to 1 less than the method argument.
- We don't have a calling object
	- But we do have an argument, so we'll return that.

We should be able to write the following code and get the same output as `Integer#times`

```ruby
times(5) do |num|
	puts num
end
```

Let's give the implementation a shot.

```ruby
# method implementation
def times(number)
	counter = 0
	while counter < number
		yield(counter)
		counter += 1
	end

	number # return original argument
end

# method invocation
times(5) do |num|
	puts num
end

# Output:
# 0
# 1
# 2
# 3
# 4
# => 5
```

Let's trace the code execution of the above code:

1. Method invocation begins at line 5, the `times` method is invoked with `5` as the argument
2. Execution enters the first line of the method at line 3, initializing local method variable `counter` to `0` 
3. Execution moves to line 4, beginning a `while` loop, and the `while` conditional is evaluated, which current evaluates to `true`.
4. Execution moves to line 5, which yields to the block. This is the same as executing the block of code, and this time, we are executing the block of code with an argument. `counter` is passed to `yield` as an argument, which starts at `0`.
5. Execution jumps to the block on line 13, the object referenced by `counter` is assigned to the local block variable `num`, i.e., `num` is assigned to `0`.
6. Execution moves to line 15, where `num` is passed into `puts` and the current object referenced by `num` is output.
7. Execution moves back into the `times` method on line 6, and increments `counter` by 1.
8. Execution moves back to line 4 and repeats steps 3-7.
9. At some point, the `while` conditional will return `false` and execution will move to line 9.
10. Reaching the end of the method at line 10, execution will return the last expression in this method, which is the `number` local method variable.

This example is made a little bit more complicated due to the `while` loop, but pay attention to the interplay between the method implementation and the block.

From within the method, we are yielding execution to the block, and we are passing an argument to the block.
- Therefore, when we call this method, we know that we must include a block that takes an argument.

In other words, there are two separate roles here:
- the `times` method implementer and the user of the `times` method.

For example, let's call the method implementer Isaac, and the user Uni (Isaac the implementer, and Uni the user).
- Both are developers, so the roles her are just in relation to the `times` method.

Isaac wants to write a generic `times` method.
- Doesn't know if users of the method will be outputting values, or adding them together, or whatever else.
- All he wants to do is write a generic method that iterates up to a certain number.
- Using a block is a perfect use case; he can allow users of his method to use blocks to perform some action.
	- He doesn't know what that action is, so all he is responsible for is to yield to the block and pass to the block the current number.
- This is the inspiration for our `times` method.

Uni has the need to iterate up to a certain number throughout her code. She finds Isaac's `times` method, and decides to use it.
- She reads the documentation and finds some examples.
- This fits her needs perfectly, as long as she passed in an argument to the method, and a block takes that argument.
- She can then be sure that the argument to her block is going to be a number starting from `0`, up to 1 less than the argument she passed to the method.

Up to this point, we've been using `Integer#times` or `Array#each` by relying on documentation.

We're now starting to se how Isaac implements these methods, so you can start implementing these types of generic methods in your own code.