
Now we're going to try to build our own `each` method. We'll be using `Array#each` method as our inspiration.
- One subtlety to note: the `Array#each` method returns the calling object at the end

```ruby
[1, 2, 3].each { |num| "do nothing" }
```

What happens with the `Array#each` method?
- It iterates through the array, yielding each element to the block, where the block an do whatever it needs to do each element.
- The method also returns the calling object.
	- This enables the developer to chain methods

```ruby
[1, 2, 3].each do { |num| "do nothing" }.select { |num| num.odd? }
```

Let's write our own `each` method that takes an array, and exhibits the same behaviors as `Array#each`

```ruby
def each(array)
	counter = 0

	while < array.size
		yield(array[counter])
		counter += 1
	end

	array
end
```

Note:

We have used a loop (specifically a `while` loop) in the implementation of the `each` method.

We could have also used the `Array#each` method, since we're passing in an `Array` object.
- This would defeat the purpose of this lesson

How does our `each` method behave? Let's take a look

```ruby
array = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]

each(array) do |num|
	puts num
end

# 1
# 2
# 3
# 4
# 5
# => [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
```

And because our method returns the argument, we can chain methods, just like `Array#each` .

The entire magic of our `each` method relies on the fact that our method does **not** implement what action to perform when iterating through the array.
- It is solely focused on *iterating* and not anything beyond that.

Writing a generic iterating method allows method callers to add additional implementation details at method invocation time by passing in a block.
- This is why we `yield` to the block when we implemented the method

The trick here is to pass the current element we're working with to the block.
- At each iteration within the `while` loop, execution then goes to the block (wit the current element as the block argument), and will return execution back to the `while` loop after executing the lock.
- `counter` is then incremented, and the `while` loop continues and the next element is yielded to the block.

Code:

```ruby
# method implementation
def each(array)
  counter = 0

  while counter < array.size
    yield(array[counter])
    counter += 1
  end

  array
end

# method invocation
array = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]

p each((array)) { |num| puts num }
```


Execution flow:

1. Execution begins at line 16 where the `each` method is invoked, passing `array` as an argument.
2. Execution jumps to line 2 inside of the `each` method definition. Local method variable `counter` is initialized to `0`
3. Execution moves to line 4. A `while` loop is started, and the conditional is evaluated, evaluating to `true`
4. Execution moves to line 5, yielding to the block and passing in `array[counter]` as an argument.
5. Execution jumps to line 16, where the object referenced by `array[counter]` binds to `num` and is passed into `puts`. This outputs the object `1` .
6. Execution then jumps back to line 6, and `counter` is incremented by 1.
7. Steps 3 - 6 are repeated until the `while` conditional evaluates to `false`, where execution will then move to line 11.
8. At the end of the method, execution will return the last expression evaluated, which is the object being passed in; in this case `array` .