
Before you can begin using Ruby to develop software, your development environment must have Ruby installed.

You should understand how Ruby got on your system, and how to determine the version of Ruby your system uses.

## Ruby on Cloud9

Cloud9 uses pre-built workspaces based on standard Linux distributions.
- They take things a bit further, and install additional software that almost every Rubyist needs.
	- Most notable, it automatically installs the RVM Ruby version manager, and sets things up so that RVM controls which Ruby you use, not the system.

The pre-installed RVM removes several potential stumbling blocks from your path to the Ruby enlightenment.
- With RVM, you can install and manage Ruby components without root privileges.
	- This protects you from the problems that can arise when you misuse root privileges.

Cloud9 is the path of least resistance for people who aren't comfortable managing system tools and libraries; we recommend it if you have never installed or configured system tools.


## Ruby on a Mac

On Macs, Ruby is part of the standard OS X/macOS installation.

You can find the ruby command at `/usr/bin/ruby`. 
- This is called your "system Ruby".
	- This is a compete installation of Ruby and its standard components.
	- However, the installation is usually an older version of Ruby.
		- To check the exact version, you can ask your system Ruby for its version number.

```
$ /usr/bin/ruby -v
```

This reports that the version is 2.0.0p648.

The Mac system Ruby has a characteristic that makes it undesirable for developers: it needs **root access** to install and manipulate other Ruby components.
- Root access is a privileged user level that isn't always available to the developer, so the developer lacks the permissions needed to easily install these components.

Between being outdate and needing root access, the system version of Ruby on a Mac is suboptimal for development; you should install a Ruby version manager and use it to install the Rubies you need.

On a Mac, you should install [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/) 
- This is a package manager designed for Macs; you may need this to install some programs that are useful with Ruby, like PostgreSQL.

## Ruby on Linux

Depending on your distribution, Ruby may or may not be pre-installed on your Linux system.

If not, you can install it with your package manager.
- RPM, Yum, DPKG etc.

Regardless, the `ruby` program will end up in the `/usr/bin` and `/usr/lib/ruby` directories, just like on a Mac.

The Linux system Ruby may also suffer from needing root access, as described in the previous section.

Between being outdate and needing root access, the system version of Ruby on Linux is suboptimal for development.

## What Ruby Am I Running?

You can determine where your system finds the `ruby` command with this command:

```
$ which ruby
```

This shows the path name of the file that will run wen you type `ruby`. The path is the easiest way to tell which Ruby you are running:

- `/usr/bin/ruby`

This is the system Ruby on both Mac and Linux systems.
- It isn't suitable for development owing to age and permissions issues.
- If you see that you are using a system Ruby, you should install a Ruby version manager

The system Ruby also stores some additional commands (like `irb` and `rake` ) in the `/usr/bin` directory.

`/usr/lib/ruby` contains other Ruby components such as the libraries and Gems.
- On a Mac, `/usr/lib/ruby` provides access to the Ruby components, but his is just an alias for the real directory that is nested deeply in `/System/Library/Frameworks`. (You should never modify or delete files in this directory directly.)

- `/usr/local/rbevn/shims/ruby`

The presence of the words "rbenv" or "shims" means you are using a version of Ruby installed by the **rbenv** Ruby version manager.

- `/usr/local/rvm/rubies/ruby-2.2.2/bin/ruby`

The presence of the word "rvm" means you are using a version of Ruby installed by the RVM Ruby version manager.
- Note that this path name also shows you which Ruby version is now active

Other names are possible as well, but these are the ones -- with variations mentioned above -- you are most likely to see.

## What Gets Installed With Ruby?

Besides the `ruby` command, a Ruby installation contains a host of other files and tools, including:

- The core library
- The standard library
- The `irb` REPL
- The `rake` utility: a tool to automate Ruby development tasks
- The `gem` command: a tool to manage RubyGems
- Documentation tools (`rdoc` and `ri`)