
As we learned earlier, a standard Ruby installation includes a large library of code that is always available to your programs (the core library), as well as another large library that you can require (the standard library). There is even more code out there we can use as well.

## What are Gems?

**RubyGems**, often just called **Gems**, are packages of code that you can download, install, and use in your Ruby programs or from the command line.

The `gem` command manages your Gems; al versions of Ruby since version 1.9 supply `gem` as part of the standard installation.

The basics of Gems are pretty simple: you can search the [RubyGems](https://rubygems.org/) to find a gem you want to install, and then run `gem install` to install the Gem on your system.

## Gems, Ruby, and your Computer

When you run `gem install` to install a gem, what exactly happens?

#### The Remote Library

Where are these gems once we install them? How do we find them?

When you first start using Ruby, someone will usually tell you to install certain Gems.
- LS tells you to install the `rubocop` and `pry` gems; both tools are useful to new (and experienced) Ruby developers.

Eventually, we will need to search through a remote Gem library to find gems to install.
- The one you will use most often is the main [Ruby Gems Library](https://rubygems.org/gems).

Once you've found a gem you want to install, you run `gem install GEM_NAME` to install the gem.
- The `gem` command connects to the remote library, downloads the appropriate Gems, and installs them.

#### The Local Library

When `gem` installs a Gem, it places the files that comprise the Gem on your local system in a location where Ruby and your system can find the files and command it needs.
- This location is the local library

Precisely where `gem` creates the local library depends on several factors, including whether you are using a system Ruby that needs root access, a user maintainable Ruby, the specific Ruby version number, and whether you use a Ruby version manager, e.g., rbenv or RVM.
- Fortunately, `gem` knows where to put things, and things just work.

#### Gems and Your File System

Sometimes you need to determine where `gem` puts things on your system.
- E.g., you may need to look at the source code to better understand how a Gem works.
- You may also need to diagnose a problem with a Gem not working as expected.

So, where do you look? The easiest way is to ask `gem` to tell you. Run the command:

```
$ gem env
```

This prints a longish list of information about your RubyGems installation. Some of the more pertinent information produced by this command looks like this:

```
RubyGems Environment:
  - RUBYGEMS VERSION: 2.4.8
  - RUBY VERSION: 2.2.2 (2015-12-16 patchlevel 230) [x86_64-linux]
  - INSTALLATION DIRECTORY: /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-2.2.2
  - RUBY EXECUTABLE: /usr/local/rvm/rubies/ruby-2.2.2/bin/ruby
  - EXECUTABLE DIRECTORY: /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-2.2.2/bin
    ...
  - REMOTE SOURCES:
     - https://rubygems.org/
  - SHELL PATH:
     - /home/ubuntu/.nvm/versions/node/v4.5.0/bin
     - /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-2.2.2/bin
     - /usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-2.2.2@global/bin
     ...
```

This output is from Cloud9 with the RVM version manager. If your setup is different, your configuration will show different results.

Let's look at some of these settings

#### **RUBY VERSION**

This is the version number of the Ruby associated with the `gem` command you just ran.
- Each version of Ruby has it's own `gem` command.

Checking the RUBY VERSION is a helpful diagnostic: if you see an unexpected version, you are likely using the wrong version of `gem` or `ruby`.

#### **RUBY EXECUTABLE**

This is the location of the `ruby` command that you should use with the Gems managed by this `gem` command.
- This information is often useful when RUBY VERSION reveals a `gem / ruby` mismatch.

#### **INSTALLATION DIRECTORY**

This directory is where `gem` installs Gems by default.

Note that the location varies based on the Ruby version number.
- Under rbenv, you may see two different versions in this name: the first is the major version, the second is the actual version. You can usually ignore the major version.)

Let's look at this structure visually.
- Note that the following shows the directory structure under RVM; the structure that will be different but similar with rbenv or a system ruby.

###### **Figure 1**

```
$ tree /usr/local/rvm      # the following is partial output
/usr/local/rvm
├── gems
│   └── ruby-2.2.2        # This is the INSTALLATION DIRECTORY for Gems
│       ├── bin
│       │   ├── bundle
│       │   └── rubocop
│       └── gems
│           ├── bundler-1.12.5
│           ├── freewill-1.0.0
│           │   └── lib
│           │       └── freewill.rb
│           ├── pry-0.10.4
│           └── rubocop-0.43.1
└── rubies
    └── ruby-2.2.2
        └── bin
            ├── gem
            ├── irb
            └── ruby
 
```

This structure shows Ruby 2.2.2 and some associated Gems installed under RVM.
- Note the locations of the `gems` directory in this structure.
- All Gems for Ruby 2.2.2 are installed here.
	- The files are in subdirectories named with the name and version number of the installed Gems.

Inside each Gem-specific directory, you will find additional subdirectories and files. For example, we show a bit of detail for the `freewill` 1.0.0 Gem in Figure 1.

The `lib` subdirectory is the most important: this is where your Ruby finds the `require` files for the Gem.
- For instance, when you write `require 'freewill'` in a program, Ruby loads `freewill.rb` from this `lib` subdirectory.
- Note that he Gems are installed within a specific Ruby version; in this way, it's impossible to install the same Gem for multiple Rubies because they are installed under the Ruby version-specific directory.

#### **USER INSTALLATION DIRECTORY** 

Depending on your installation of Ruby and the options you pass to `gem`, `gem` may install Gems somewhere in your home directory instead of a system-level directory.
- This is the location in your home directory that `gem` uses in such cases.

The structure of the USER INSTALLATION DIRECTORY is the same as the INSTALLATION DIRECTORY

#### **EXECUTABLE INSTALLATION DIRECTORY**

Some Gems provide commands that you can use directly from a terminal prompt; `gem` places those commands in this directory.

In Figure 1, we show the `bundler` and `rubocop` executables for Ruby 2.2.2 in the `bin` subdirectory.

Note that you need to include this directory in your shell `PATH` variable so that the shell can find these commands.
- Your Ruby version manager usually handles this, but it's useful to know where to look if you have problems.

#### **REMOVE SOURCES**

This is the remote library used by this `gem` installation

#### SHELL PATH

The value of your shell's `PATH` variable; this variable tells your shell which directories it should search to find executable program files.
- If you have problems with `command not found` messages or running the wrong versions of programs ,this listing may provide valuable clues about where the system looks for your programs.

Note that in particular that the list of directories includes `/usr/local/rvm/rubies/ruby-2.2.2/bin`.
- We can see from Figure 1 that this directory contains the `ruby`, `irb` and `gems` commands (it contains other commands as well)

If you don't remember what the `PATH` is or how to set it, please take some time to review the chapter on the environment in the [Introduction to the Command Line](https://launchschool.com/books/command_line/read/environment) book.


#### Which File Was Required?

Suppose your program needs a specific feature from version 1.1.1 of a Gem named `freewill`, but when you try to run the program, you get an error that tells you the feature doesn't exist.
- How can you find out which version of the Gem your program really loaded?

To determine the Gem version, you need to know the full path name of the file that your program loaded.
- The easiest way to do this is to insert some debugging code (or a call to `binding.pry` ) in your program shortly after the point where you require the Gem:

`puts $LOADED_FEATURES.grep(/freewill\.rb/)`

This will print something like this:

```
/usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-2.2.2/gems/freewill-1.0.0/lib/freewill.rb
```

That command searches for any entries in the `$LOADED_FEATURES` Array that include `freewill.rb` in the name, and prints all matching entries.
- With luck there is just one entry, though sometimes you may have several from which to choose.

The resulting name is the path of the file that your program required; by looking at that name, you can see that your program loaded the file from `freewill-1.0.0`. 
- This tells you that your program loaded version 1.0.0 of the gem, not version 1.1.1 as needed.

#### Multiple Gem Versions

In the previous section, we described an issue where we loaded the wrong version of a Gem. One possible solution to the problem was to install the correct version of the Gem.
- However, this introduces another opportunity for version-related problems with Gems

Suppose our system now looks like this:

**Figure 2**

```
$ tree /usr/local/rvm      # the following is partial output
/usr/local/rvm
└── gems
    └── ruby-2.2.2        # This is the INSTALLATION DIRECTORY for Gems
        ├── bin
        │   ├── bundle
        │   └── rubocop
        └── gems
            ├── bundler-1.12.5
            ├── freewill-1.0.0
            │   └── lib
            │       └── freewill.rb
            ├── freewill-1.1.1
            │   └── lib
            │       └── freewill.rb
            ├── pry-0.10.4
            └── rubocop-0.43.1
```

Figure 2 shows that we now have two versions of `freewill` installed. Let's say that version 1.1.1 is not fully compatible with the older 1.0.0 version.

Suppose further that we have another Ruby program that requires the version of 1.0.0 of `freewill`. What happens when this program tries to `require 'freewill'`?

In this situation, Ruby loads the installed version of the Gem with the most recent version number, namely version 1.1.1.
- This means trouble for our hypothetical program that needs the older version.
- This can be addressed in several ways:

- Provide an absolute path name to `require`
- Add an appropriate `-I` option to the Ruby invocation
- Modify `$LOAD_PATH` prior to requiring `somegem`
- Modify the `RUBYLIB` environment variable

These fixes are all hacks though; they will quickly become unmanageable and an enormous mess and source of bugs.
- The right choice is to use Bundler

## Summary

In this chapter, we've learned that RubyGems, or Gems for short, are packages of code that you can download, install, and use in your Ruby programs or from the command line. The `gem` command manages your Gems.

We've learned how RubyGems are organized on your filesystem, and seen how to deal with some common issues that arise when working with Gems.

We've also briefly touched on the fact that you can install multiple versions of Ruby on your system, and that such multi-version systems take this into account when managing your Gems. However, our coverage was minimal since we need to learn how to put multiple Rubies on your system. We will learn how to do that in the next chapter, Ruby Version Managers.