
## What are Ruby Version Managers?

Ruby version managers are programs that let you install, manage and use multiple versions of Ruby.
- Eventually, you're going to write or use a Ruby program that needs a different version of Ruby
	- This is because Ruby is an evolving language with features being added or removed with each version release

Another reason to use version managers is when working on multiple applications.
- Software applications tend to standardize on a specific Ruby version in order to guarantee developers don't use unsupported language features.
	- Will need to switch between versions when working on different projects that require different versions

## Which Ruby Version Manager Should I Use?

There are two major ruby version managers in common use: RVM and rbenv. 
- Deciding which to use depends on your own preferences and needs, but most people just pick one and start using it.

Functionally, the two systems perform all the tasks most developers need. In most cases, there is little in the way of features to recommend one over the other.

RVM is recommended for Cloud9 or a Linux system, while Rbenv is recommended for Mac.
- This is because there are some issues with RVM on Mac, mostly having to do with using older versions of Ruby


## RVM

Figure 3 shows a typical installation of two different Ruby versions under RVM. This output assumes that `rvm` stores its files in `/usr/local/rvm` ; depending on your system and installation, the directory might be elsewhere.

**Figure 3**

```
$ tree /usr/local/rvm        # the following is partial output
/usr/local/rvm               # RVM path directory
├── gems
│   ├── ruby-2.2.2
│   │   ├── bin
│   │   │   ├── bundle
│   │   │   └── rubocop
│   │   └── gems
│   │       ├── bundler-1.12.5
│   │       ├── freewill-1.0.0
│   │       │   └── lib
│   │       │       └── freewill.rb
│   │       ├── pry-0.10.4
│   │       └── rubocop-0.43.1
│   └── ruby-2.3.1
│       ├── bin
│       │   ├── bundle
│       │   └── rubocop
│       └── gems
│           ├── bundler-1.12.5
│           ├── freewill-1.0.0
│           │   └── lib
│           │       └── freewill.rb
│           ├── pry-0.10.4
│           └── rubocop-0.45.0
└── rubies
    ├── ruby-2.2.2
    │   └── bin
    │       ├── gem
    │       ├── irb
    │       └── ruby
    └── ruby-2.3.1
        └── bin
            ├── gem
            ├── irb
            └── ruby
```

Study the above diagram a little bit to get a feel for how RVM structures Rubies and their gems.

## How RVM Works

At RVM's core is a set of directories in which RVM stores all your Ruby versions, its associated tools (such as `gem` and `irb`), and its Gems.
- Each director is specific to a given Ruby version.
- Note that the standard Ruby executables are found in the `rubies` subdirectory of RVM's main directory
- Gems are found in the `gems` subdirectory

RVM defines a shell function named `rvm`.
- Your shell uses this function in preference to executing the disk-based `rvm` command.
- The main reason for using shell functions is that functions can modify your environment, while disk-based commands cannot.

When you use `rvm use VERSION` to change the Ruby version, you invoke the `rvm` function.
- It modifies the environment so that the various ruby commands invoke the correct version.

## Installing Rubies

To check which Ruby versions you have installed, you can run the following command:

`$ rvm list rubies`

Which will output something like this:

```
$ rvm list rubies

rvm rubies

   ruby-2.1.5 [ x86_64 ]
=* ruby-2.3.1 [ x86_64 ]

# => - current
# =* - current && default
#  * - default
```

This command shows that you currently have versions 2.1.5 and 2.3.1 installed (specific to this example, your personal results will vary).

To install a specific version you can use the command `rvm install VERSION`.

## Setting Local Rubies

To set a local ruby, you can use run the following command:

```
$ rvm use VERSION
```

This command modifies your environment to ensure that the first ruby your system finds is the version you specified.
- This same change also works for related commands such as `gem`, `irb` and `rubocop`.

Usually though, you won't use this command and will instead define a default version. To define a default version, run the following:

```
$ rvm use VERISON --default
```

If you later set a version as the current Ruby, you can restore the default with:

```
$ rvm use default
```

Suppose that you want to use a different version of Ruby with one of your projects?
- It's not too hard to switch version using the previously mentioned command, but it's error prone
	- Might sometimes forget to change the versions, and may also forget to switch back to the default.

Instead we can automate the version changes.
- This is where things get a bit complex.

```
$ cd ~/src/magic
$ rvm --ruby-version use 2.2.2
```

This creates a `.ruby-version` file in the directory. Once set, you don't need to worry about setting the version for this project.

For good measure, you should set your default version in your home directory.

```
$ cd ~
$ rvm --ruby-version default
```

This ensure that RVM uses the default Ruby wen you aren't in the project directory.

To make use of the `.ruby-version` file, RVM replaces the `cd` command from your shell with a shell function.
- This function invokes the real `cd` command, then checks for the `.ruby-version` file (it also checks for some other files we won't discuss).
	- If it finds one of these files, it retrieves the version number from the file, and the modifies your environment in the same way the `rvm` function does.

RVM also uses the `Gemfile` for ruby projects that use Bundler. If the `Gemfile` contains a `ruby` directive, RVM uses that version of ruby to run the program.
- `.ruby-version` file takes precedence.

## Where Are My Rubies, Gems and Apps Now?

RVM creates a directory at installation known as the RVM path.
- Also installs all RVM-related files, including all the Rubies and Gems that it manages, in this directory.

To determine the path, run:

```
$ rvm info rvm
```

This displays something like this:

```
ruby-2.2.2:

  rvm:
    version:      "rvm 1.27.0 (latest) by Wayne E. Seguin <wayneeseguin@gmail.com>, Michal Papis <mpapis@gmail.com> [https://rvm.io/]"
    updated:      "2 months 6 days 20 hours 34 minutes 44 seconds ago"
    path:         "/usr/local/rvm"
```

The `path` entry in that listing is the RVM path.

As we see in Figure 3, there are two important subdirectories in the RVM path.
- The `rubies` directory and the `gems` directory.

The `rubies` directory contains all the rubies managed by RVM, as well as its associated utilities, libraries and Gems.

The `gems` directory has a similar structure, but each of the subdirectories contains a `bin` subdirectory.
- This directory contains the executable programs associated with your Gems, like `rubocop` and `bundle`.

## When Things Go Wrong

The most likely issue with RVM is that you get confused about which version of Ruby you are running, or you install or update Gems with the wrong `gem` command.

When trying to diagnose an RVM problem, first make sure that you are using the correct Ruby version -- such problems are easier to see -- then check for Gem versioning issues.

Here are some useful troubleshooting hints and commands:

1. Make sure your directory name does not include an spaces, and one of its ancestors (parents, grandparents, etc.) do either. RVM does not currently support directory names with spaces.

2. `type cd | head -1 ; type rvm | head = 1`

	Use this command to verify that you are using the `cd` and `rvm` functions, not the built-in `cd` command nor the executable file `rvm`. These commands should print:

```
cd is a function
rvm is a function
```

If it does, everything is okay. Otherwise, the `cd` and `rvm` functions aren't defined properly and RVM fails to work.

To load `cd` and `rvm` as functions, confirm that your shell startup file (`.profile, .bash_profile`, etc. -- see your specific shell's documentation) includes a command that looks something like this:

```
$ source "{RVM PATH}"/scripts/rvm"
```

(`{RVM PATH}` is the name of your RVM path)

This command should be near the end of the file, after any commands that set or modify your `PATH` variable or replace built-in commands with functions.
- If you must change the file, start a new terminal session after making the changes, then close any previously opened terminal sessions.

3. `echo $PATH`

	Confirm that the `{RVM PATH}/rubies-{VERSION}/bin` and `{RVM PATH}/gem/rubies-{VERSION}/bin` directories are present in your `PATH`, and listed before any other directories that may contain programs with the same name.

	If, for example, `/usr/bin` occurs before `{RVM_PATH}/rubies-{VERSION}/bin` in your PATH, your system may load the system version of Ruby instead of one managed by RVM.

4. `rvm info`

	Displays a longish list of information about the current RVM environment.

5. `rvm current`

	Displays the active version of Ruby. If you se the wrong version displayed and don't understand why, see [the documentation](https://rvm.io/). The section on "Choosing the Ruby version" is particularly important.

6. `rvm fix-permissions`

	Repairs the permissions on RVM files. This may be useful if you accidentally use `sudo` to install, modify, or update RVM, or any of its rubies or gems. If you see "permission denied" messages on any of these files, try running this command.

7. `rvm repair all`

	Repairs files that help RVM manage the different rubies. This may be useful if RVM seems completely broken in areas.

8. `rvm get latest`

	Download and install the latest version of RVM. This is most useful when you are suing a new or unfamiliar feature that may not be available or working correctly in your current version of RVM.

9. `gem env`

	Display configuration information about your RubyGems system.

10. `gem list`

	Displays a list of all Gems installed for the current Ruby, along with their version numbers. 


## RVM Gemsets

RVM supports something call gemsets.
- This feature provides capabilities similar to hat provided by Bundler: it lets you tie specific Gems to each of your projects.
	- Bundler is more widely used, recommended to use that instead.

However, you may one day need to learn about gemsets, so you might want to take a look at [the basic gemsets documentation](https://rvm.io/gemsets/basics).


## Summary

Ruby version managers let you manage multiple versions of Ruby, the utilities (such as `irb` ) associated with each version, and the RubyGems installed for each Ruby.
- With version managers, you can install and uninstall ruby versions and gems, and run specific versions of ruby with specific programs and environments.

RVM and rbenv are similar in function, with little to distinguish between the two.

RVM, by default, has more features, but rbenv plugins provide much of the functionality not provided by the base install of rbenv.

RVM works by dynamically managing your environment, mostly by modifying our `PATH` variable and replacing the built-in `cd` command with an RVM-aware shell function.
- rbenv works by just modifying your `PATH` and some other environment variables.



