
Dependency issues arise in all languages. In Ruby, most developers use a Ruby version manager to manage multiple versions.

The favored approach, however, is to use a **dependency manger**.

The Bundler Gem is the most widely use dependency manager.
- This Gem lets you configure which Ruby and which Gems each of your projects need.

## Gemfile and Gemfile.lock

Bundler relies on a text file named `Gemfil` to tell it which version of Ruby and its Gems it should use.
- This file is a simple Ruby program that uses a Domain Specific Language (DSL) to provide details about the Ruby and Gem versions.

After you create `Gemfile`, the `bundle install` command scans it, downloads and installs all the dependencies listed, and produces a `Gemfile.lock` file.
- This file shows all the dependencies for your program; this includes the Gems listed in `Gemfile`, as well as the Gems they depend on, which may not be explicitly listed in the `Gemfile`.
- It's very common for RubyGems you install to rely on many other gems, creating a large dependency tree.

Suppose you are writing a program that requires Ruby 2.3.1 and the `sinatra`  , `erubis`  and `rack`  Gems. Our `Gemfile` incorporates these dependencies:

```
source 'https://rubygems.org'

ruby '2.3.1'
gem 'sinatra'
gem 'erubis'
gem 'rack'
gem 'rake'
```

Furthermore, our ruby installation looks like Figure 5:

**Figure 5**

```
$ tree /usr/local/rvm # the following is partial output
/usr/local/rvm # RVM path directory
└── gems
    ├── ruby-2.2.2
    └── ruby-2.3.1
        ├── bin
        │   ├── bundle
        │   └── rubocop
        └── gems
            ├── erubis-2.7.0
            ├── rack-1.6.4
            ├── rack-protection-1.5.3
            ├── rake-10.4.2
            ├── rake-11.3.0
            ├── sinatra-1.4.6
            ├── sinatra-1.4.7
            └── tilt-2.0.5
```

We now run:

```
$ bundle install
```

to install the specified Gems (if needed) and create a `Gemfile.lock` which looks like this:

```
GEM
  remote: https://RubyGems.org/
  specs:
    erubis (2.7.0)
    rack (1.6.4)
    rack-protection (1.5.3)
      rack
    rake (10.4.2)
    sinatra (1.4.7)
      rack (~> 1.5)
      rack-protection (~> 1.4)
      tilt (>= 1.3, < 3)
    tilt (2.0.5)

PLATFORMS
  ruby

DEPENDENCIES
  erubis
  rack
  rake
  sinatra

RUBY VERSION
   ruby 2.3.1p112

BUNDLED WITH
   1.13.6
```

The `specs` section under the `GEM` heading provides a list of the Gems (and their versions) that your app will load.

Beneath each listed Gem is a list of *the Gem's* dependencies; that is, the Gems and versions it needs to work.

We didn't have to provide any information about `rack-protection` and `tilt` in our `Gemfile`; Bundler found this information on its own by examining the `Gemfile`s for those gems -- that is, not our application's `Gemfile`, but the `Gemfile` that came with the Gems specified in our `Gemfile`. It then added the information to our `Gemfile.lock`.

See the [Bundler documentaion](http://bundler.io/docs.html) for more information on how to construct a `Gemfile`.

## Running Apps With Bundler

Once Bundler creates your `Gemfile.lock` , add:

```ruby
require 'bundler/setup'
```

to the beginning of your app, before any other Gems (unneeded if your app is a Rails app).

`bundler/setup` first removes all Gem directories from Ruby's `$LOAD_PATH` global array.
- Ruby uses `$LOAD_PATH` to list the directories that it searches when it needs to locate a required file.

When `bundler/setup` removes those directories from `$LOAD_PATH`, Ruby can no longer find Gems.

To fix this, `bundler/setup` reads `Gemfile.lock` ; for each Gem listed, it adds the directory that contains that Gem back to `$LOAD_PATH`.
- When finished, `require` only finds the proper versions of each Gem.
- This ensure that the specific Gem and version your app depends on is loaded, and not a conflicting version of that Gem.

Now all you need to do is run your app and the correct Gem will be loaded when you `require` files.

## bundle exec

As we saw earlier, an app that relies on Bundler should `require` the `bundler/setup` package before it loads any Gems.

Unfortunately, you will surely encounter situations where you can't just add `require 'bundler/setup'` to the code, or the program itself may run code that has conflicting needs.

When this happens, you need the `bundle/exec` command.

You can use `bundle/exec` to run most any command in an environment that conforms to the `Gemfile.lock` versioning info. In fact, we can use this feature to see how `bundle/exec` modifies your environment:

```
# This command compares the output of 'bundle exec env' with the output of 'env'

$ diff <(bundle exec env) <(env)
< PATH=/usr/local/rbenv/versions/2.3.1/lib/ruby/gems/2.3.0/bin:/usr/local/rbenv/versions/2.3.1/bin:/usr/local/Cellar/rbenv/1.0.0/libexec:/usr/local/rbenv/shims:...
---
> PATH=/usr/local/rbenv/shims:...
< RBENV_HOOK_PATH=/usr/local/rbenv/rbenv.d:/usr/local/Cellar/rbenv/1.0.0/rbenv.d:/usr/local/etc/rbenv.d:/etc/rbenv.d:/usr/lib/rbenv/hooks:/usr/local/rbenv/plugins/rbenv-default-gems/etc/rbenv.d
< RBENV_DIR=/Users/wolfy/my_app
< RUBYLIB=/usr/local/rbenv/versions/2.3.1/lib/ruby/gems/2.3.0/gems/bundler-1.13.6/lib:/usr/local/Cellar/rbenv/1.0.0/rbenv.d/exec/gem-rehash
< RBENV_VERSION=2.3.1
< BUNDLE_BIN_PATH=/usr/local/rbenv/versions/2.3.1/lib/ruby/gems/2.3.0/gems/bundler-1.13.6/exe/bundle
< BUNDLE_GEMFILE=/Users/wolfy/my_app/Gemfile
< RUBYOPT=-rbundler/setup
```

The above shows partial output only.

The two commands produce different results; this output shows the modifications and additions that `bundle/exec` makes to your environment.

Of special importance is the `RUBYOPT` value: this tells Ruby to `require bundler/setup`  before it starts running your code.
- This lets Bundler gain control in time to configure things so that the app loads the proper Gems.

## When Should You Use `bundle/exec`?

You usually use `bundle/exec` with commands written in Ruby and installed as Gems, e.g., Rake, Pry, and Rackup.
- But when would one need to use it?

We use it to resolve dependency conflicts when issuing shell commands. From time to time, you may encounter an error message that looks like this:

```
Gem::LoadError: You have already activated rake 11.3.0, but your Gemfile requires rake 10.4.2. Prepending `bundle exec` to your command may solve this.
```

This error usually appears when you use a Gem command whose version differs from the Gem version in your `Gemfile`.

For example, your default version of `rake` is 11.3.0 but you're in a directory where the `Gemfile` wants 10.4.2.
- This is the situation in Figure 5 and our `Gemfile`.

When you run `rake` from the command line, your system will find and execute `rake` 11.3.0; your shell doesn't know about the `Gemfile`s, so it just invokes the version of `rake` it finds in the `PATH`.

However, `rake` sometimes runs code that Bundler manages but isn't part of `rake`, and that's where things get ugly. When that code runs, it checks your `Gemfile.lock`, and sees that it needs `rake` 10.4.2, so it tries to load and run it. Unfortunately, `rake` is already running, but it is version 11.3.0. Since you can't run two versions of `rake` in the same process, the `require` fails with a `LoadError`.

The solution is easy: the error message tells you what to do. All you have to do is run the command with `bundle exec`:

```
$ bundle exec rake
```

This changes the environment so hat `rake` 10.4.2 runs instead of the system default.
- Now, when `rake` runs the external code, Bundler sees that you are already running 10.4.2, so everything is okay, and execution continues.

Discrepancies with `rake` and other executables are the main reason to use `bundle exec` ; it's easy to find advice that says "always use `bundle exec rake`", and this is good advice.
- However, this problem can happen with other commands as well.
- Any Gem command that requires other Gems may load a Gem that conflicts with your app's requirements.
	- `bundle exec` is the easiest way to fix this issue.


## `binstubs`

`binstubs` is a an alternative to using `bundle exec` . It sets up a directory of short Ruby scripts (wrappers) with the same names as executables installed by your Gems.

By default, `binstubs` names this directory as `bin` , but you should override that if your app also needs a `bin` directory of its own.

The scrips in the `binstubs`-provided directory effectively replace `bundle/exec` ; if you include the directory in your `PATH`, you can avoid using `bundle exec`. 

## When Things Go Wrong

In all likelihood, you will use Bundler to solve problems.

Another common issue though, occurs when you try to run your app and you get something like this:

```
in `require': cannot load such file -- colorize (LoadError)
```

This means that `bundler/setup` can't find the named `Gem` (`colorize` here).
- However, you've confirmed that the Gem is installed, and has the proper permissions and you're using the proper version of Ruby and the `gem` command.

The problem here is that the `Gemfile.lock` file doesn't list the `colorize` Gem; `bundler/setup` insists that your `Gemfile.lock` contains all needed Gems.
- To add this Gem to yours, add it to your `Gemfile`, then run `bundle install` again to generate a new `Gemfile.lock` file.

Another potential issue is that you may use the wrong version of the `bundler` command. Remember that Bundler is a RubyGem, and every Ruby version on your system has its own Gems; this includes the `bundle` command. If you use `bundle` from version 2.2.2 of Ruby when you mean to use Ruby 2.3.1, you may end up with unexpected results. For instance, if your `Gemfile` lists a specific version of a Gem that only runs under Ruby 2.3.0 or higher, the `bundle` command will fail to find a Gem that meets that requirement. Make sure you use the correct version of `bundle`.

Here are some more things to try if problems continue:

- Remove your `Gemfile.lock` and run `bundle install` again. This creates a new `Gemfile.lock` file.
    
- Remove the `.bundle` directory and its contents from your project directory and run `bundle install` again.
    
- If you're using the `binstubs` feature, remove the directory used by `binstubs` and run `bundle install --binstubs` again. Don't do this if you aren't using `binstubs`.
    
- Remove and reinstall Bundler:
    
    Copy Code
    
    ```terminal
    $ gem uninstall bundler
    $ gem install bundler
    ```
    
- If `gem list` shows that either `rubygems-bundler` or `open_gem` are installed, uninstall them. These old Gems are incompatible with Bundler. Repeat the above items if you remove either Gem.
    
- Issue this command in the command line from your app's top-level directory:
    
    Copy Code
    
    ```terminal
    $ rm Gemfile.lock ; DEBUG_RESOLVER=1 bundle install
    ```
    
    This command removes the `Gemfile.lock` file, then runs `bundle install` while producing debug information. You can use the debug information to see how Bundler resolves each Gem. This can be valuable when you aren't sure if your app is loading the correct Gems. Note that you must include the `rm Gemfile.lock` part; this mode only produces useful output when `Gemfile.lock` doesn't exist. For additional information on how Bundler's "resolver" works, see [How Does Bundler Bundle](http://patshaughnessy.net/2011/9/24/how-does-bundler-bundle).

## Summary

Bundler lets you describe exactly which Ruby and Gems you want to use with your Ruby apps. Specifically, it lets you install multiple versions of each Gem under a specific version of Ruby and then use the proper version in your app.

Bundler is a RubyGem, so you must install it like a normal Gem: `gem install bundler`.

To use Bundler, you provide a file named `Gemfile` that describes the Ruby and Gem versions you want for your app. You use a DSL described on the [Bundler website](https://bundler.io/guides/gemfile.html) to provide this information.

Bundler uses the `Gemfile` to generate a `Gemfile.lock` file via the `bundle install` command. `Gemfile.lock` describes the actual versions of each Gem that your app needs, including any Gems that the Gems listed in `Gemfile` depend on. The `bundler/setup` package tells your Ruby program to use `Gemfile.lock` to determine which Gem versions it should load.

The `bundle exec` command ensures that executable programs installed by Gems don't interfere with your app's requirements. For instance, if your app needs a specific version of `rake` but the default version of `rake` differs, `bundle exec` ensures that you can still run the specific `rake` version compatible with your app.