
## What is Rake?

Rake is a Rubygem that automates many common functions required to build, test, package and install programs.
- It is part of every modern Ruby installation

Here are some common Rake tasks that you may encounter:

- Set up required environment by creating directories and files
- Set up and initialize databases
- Run tests
- Package your application and all of its files for distribution
- Install the application
- Perform common Git tasks
- Rebuild certain files and directories (assets) based on changes to other files and directories

In short, you can write Rake tasks to automate anything you want to do with your application during the development, testing and release cycles.

## How Do You Use Rake?

Rake uses a file called `Rakefile` that lives in your project directory.
- This file describes the tasks that Rake can perform for your project, and how to perform those task.

Example of a very simple `Rakefile`:

```ruby
desc 'Say hello'
task :hello do
  puts "Hello there. This is the `hello` task."
end

desc 'Say goodbye'
task :bye do
  puts 'Bye now!'
end

desc 'Do everything'
task :default => [:hello, :bye]
```

This `Rakefile` contains three tasks: two that simply display a singe message, and one task that has the other tasks as prerequisites or dependencies.

The first two tasks are named `:hello` and `:bye`, while the final task is the **default** task.
- Rake runs the default task if you do not provide a specific task name when you invoke Rake.

Each tasks calls two Rake methods.
- `desc` and `task` 

The `desc` method provides a short description that Rake displays when you run `rake -T`.

The `task` method associates a name with either a block of Ruby code (lines 2-4 or 7-9) or a list of dependencies (line 12).

Here the `:default` task depends on the `:hello` and `:bye` tasks.
- When you run the `:default` task, Rake will run the `:hello` and `:bye` tasks first.

The first thing you should do with any Rakefile is find out what tasks it can run with the `rake -T` command.

```
$ bundle exec rake -T
rake bye      # Say goodbye
rake default  # Do everything
rake hello    # Say hello
```

This shows a short description of each task on the right.
- This information comes from the `desc` method calls in `Rakefile`.

** Note that we used `bundle exec rake -T`, not just `rake -T`. We discussed `bundle exec` in the previous chapter. Often, `rake -T` will work just fine, but many prefer to use `bundle exec` with `rake` when possible (i.e., when your project uses Bundler)

It's important to notice that `Rakefile` is actually a Ruby program.
- You can put any Ruby code you want in a `Rakefile` and run it as part of a task.
- Commands like `desc` and `task` are just method calls to parts of `Rake` 
	- These method calls comprise a Domain Specific Language (DSL) for writing automate Rake tasks.

Once you know what Rake tasks you can run, you just have to run them:

```
$ bundle exec rake bye
Bye now!

$ bundle exec rake hello
Hello there. This is the `hello` task.

$ bundle exec rake default
Hello there. This is the `hello` task.
Bye now!

$ bundle exec rake                     # we don't need to specify 'default'
Hello there. This is the `hello` task.
Bye now!
```

## Why Do I Need Rake?

Nearly every Ruby project you can find has a `Rakefile`, and the presence of that file means you need to use Rake if you want to work on that project.
- Doesn't mean you need to use it.

While you can always opt-out of using Rake in your projects, there is little point to doing so.
- Every project that aims to produce a finished product that either you or the other people intend to use in the future has repetitive task the developer needs.
- For instance, to release a new version of an existing program, you may want to do the following:

	- Run all tests associated with the program
	- Increment the version number
	- Create your release notes
	- Make a complete backup of your local repo

Each step is easy to do manually, but you want to make sure you execute them in the proper order.
- You also don't want to be at the mercy of arbitrary typos that may do the wrong thing.

It's far better to have a way to perform these tasks automatically with just one command, which is where Rake becomes extremely useful.


## A Real World Example

Let's look at a real world `Rakefile`, the one used by Pry Gem.

If you want to follow along, go to the [Pry repo](https://github.com/pry/pry) and clone it to your local filesystem:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/pry/pry
```

Make the cloned directory your current directory

```
$ cd pry
```

Before we look at the `Rakefile`, let's run Bundler to make sure we have everything installed that needs to be installed. Run the following command from the `pry` directory:

```
$ bundle install
```

This may take several minutes depending on how many and which Gems Bundler needs to install.

Once Bundler has installed everything, you can ask `rake` to show you what tasks the `Rakefile` defines.

```
$ bundle exec rake -T
rake clean                    # Remove any temporary products
rake clobber                  # Remove any generated files
rake default                  # Set up and run tests
rake gems                     # build all platform gems at once
rake profile                  # Profile pry's startup time
rake pry                      # Run pry (you can pass arguments using _ in ...
rake pushgems                 # build and push latest gems
rake reinstall                # reinstall gem
rake rmgems                   # remove all platform gems
rake ruby:clobber_package     # Remove package products
rake ruby:gem                 # Build the gem file pry-0.10.4.gem
rake ruby:package             # Build all the packages
rake ruby:repackage           # Force a rebuild of the package files
rake test                     # Run tests
rake version                  # Show pry version
```

This abridged listing eliminates several groups of commands for brevity.
- Note that the Rakefile may have changed since this was written, so the above listing may differ from what you see.
- Some of the commands below may have also changed since this writing.

As we scan the list of commands and their descriptions above, we see that the `rake default` sets up and runs the tests, while `rake test` just runs the tests. 

Given that this is the first time we're running the lists, let's run the default action first; there may be some setup that Rake needs to do:

```
$ bundle exec rake default
  ...output from tests is here...
Finished in 6.73 seconds (files took 0.61458 seconds to load)
1166 examples, 0 failures
```

** Again results may vary. Don't be concerned about this.

How did Rake know what to do when you ran `bundle exec rake default` ? If you scan through the `Rakefile`, you will find these two lines (or something similar):

```ruby
desc "Set up and run tests"
task :default => [:test]
```

`desc` provides the description for the next `task` call in the file: the `:default` task.

The array to the right of the `=>` in the `task` call identifies a list of dependencies for the named task.
- Here the `:default` task depends on the `:test` task, so Rake also runs the `:test` task.

Scanning further, yo might find something like this:

```ruby
desc "Run tests"
task :test do
  paths =
    if explicit_list = ENV['run']
      explicit_list.split(',')
    else
      Dir['spec/**/*_spec.rb'].shuffle!
    end
  run_specs paths
end
```

This call to `task` includes a block of Ruby code.
- The block tells Rake how to run the tests for Pry.
	- Specifically, it first determines the paths of the test files it needs to run (these names come from the `run` environment variable if present; otherwise, the task reads the names from the `spec` directory).

Once Rake has the path names, it runs the tests with the `run_specs` method, which Rake provides.

** If you haven't encountered **specs** yet, think of them as equivalent to Minitest tests. There are a variety of different testing frameworks for Ruby, and they sometimes use differing terminology. The specs term comes from a testing framework named RSpec, a very popular tool among Rubyists.

Let's look at the `reinstall` task now.

The `:reinstall` task in the `Rakefile` might look like this:

```ruby
desc "reinstall gem"
task :reinstall => :gems do
  sh "gem uninstall pry" rescue nil
  sh "gem install #{File.dirname(__FILE__)}/pkg/pry-#{Pry::VERSION}.gem"
end
```

We see another call to `desc` and `task`. The `:reinstall` task has a dependency named `:gems` .
- Note that we don't use array syntax here; that means that `:gems` is an array defined elsewhere in `Rakefile` : 

```ruby
desc "build all platform gems at once"
task :gems => [:clean, :rmgems, 'ruby:gem', 'jruby:gem']
```

`:gems` depends on four other tasks, each of which will be run by Rake.
- They perform some cleanup and setup processing require by Rubygems.

Once the `:gems` task finishes, Rake returns to the `:reinstall` task, and runs the block we passed to `task` . This block uninstalls the existing version of `pry` , then reinstall it based on the current state of the local repo (your `pry` directory).

If this sounds as though it might break something, don't worry. As it happens, this code installs the updated Pry package in the `pkg` subdirectory of the current directory. This won't interfere with other programs that use Pry, but you can still use and inspect what got installed in the `pkg` directory. So, feel free to go ahead and run:

```
$ bundle exec rake reinstall
$ ls -l pkg  # this will show you the newly "installed" package.
```

## When Things Go Wrong

As a Rubygem, it is subject to the same problems as other Gems. It is also subject to problems that occur with Ruby version managers.
- You can use many of the commands discussed in previous chapters to help diagnose the issue with Rake.

The main issue you will have is when to use `bundle exec` : sometimes you need to use it, sometimes you don't, and sometimes you can't use it.

Generally, if your project uses a Bundler (i.e., you have a `Gemfile`), use `bundle exec` ; if your project doesn't use a Bundler, just use `rake` .