
In the previous assignment, we saw how to use `assert_equal` to make an assertion about the equality of two objects.

In the example, we wanted to assert that the number of wheels on `car` was equal to `4`, because we're expecting all new `Car` objects to have 4 wheels.
- `assert_equal` is the most common assertion, we can get pretty far only using that.

However, there are times we need to make different types of assertions.
- For example, besides equality, sometimes we want to assert that specific error is raised, or that something is printed out to standard out, or an object must be an object of a specific class etc.

Minitest can support virtually every kind of assertion you'd want to make.
- We'll list a few of the popular ones.
- We can all see the full list of assertions [here](http://docs.seattlerb.org/minitest/Minitest/Assertions.html)

| Assertion  | Description   |
| ---------- | ------------- |
| `assert(test)` | Fails unless `test` is truthy.|
|`assert_equal(exp, act)`| Fails unless `exp == act`. |
| `assert_nil(obj)` | Fails unless `obj` is `nil` |
|`assert_raises(*exp) { ... }`|Fails unless block raises one of `*exp`.|
|`assert_instance_of(cls, obj)`|Fails unless `obj` is an instance of `cls`.|
|`assert_includes(collection, obj)`|Fails unless `collection` includes `obj`.|

## Examples

Let's take a look at using the above assertions with an example. We'll continue with our simple `Car` class, with a few modifications (notice we added an `attr_accessor` for `:name`).
- In the examples, we'll only include the test to save on space

```ruby
class Car
	attr_accessor :wheels, :name

	def initialize
		@wheels = 4
	end
end
```

1. `assert` 

```ruby
def test_car_exists
	car = Car.new
	assert(car)
end
```

2. `assert_equal` 

```ruby
def test_wheels
	car = Car.new
	assert_equal(4, car.wheels)
end
```

3. `assert_nil`

```ruby
def test_name_is_nil
	car = Car.new
	assert_nil(car.name)
end
```

4. `assert_raises`

```ruby
def test_raise_initialize_with_arg
  assert_raises(ArgumentError) do
    car = Car.new(name: "Joey")         # this code raises ArgumentError, so this assertion passes
  end
end
```

5. `assert_instance_of`

```ruby
def test_insurance_of_car
	car = Car.new
	assert_instance_of(Car, car)
end
```

This test is more useful when dealing with inheritance. This example is a little contrived.

6. `assert_includes`

```ruby
def test_includes_car
	car = Car.new
	arr = [1, 2, 3]
	arr << car

	assert_includes(arr, car)
end
```

Interestingly, `assert_includes` calls the `assert` method twice behind the scenes.
- This means that for each `assert_includes` call, you will get 2 assertions, not 1.
- This also applies to `refute_includes` as well as `assert_empty`, `assert_match`, and their refute counterparts.
- This oddity can be safely ignore.

## Refutations

Refutations are the opposite of assertions.
- They *refute* rather than *assert*.

Every assertion has a corresponding refutation.
- For example, `assert`'s opposite is `refute`. 
	- `refute` passes if you the object you pass to it is falsy.

Refutations all take the same arguments, except it's doing a *refutation*. 

Refutations are rarely used, except for rare circumstances (or if you're on a project where the team lead has chosen this style).


