
As you read the tests from previous lessons, you might have noticed that we have to set up the `car` object within each test
- Seems a little redundant
- Would be more optimal to do some set up once outside of each test
	- Then run assertions as needed

In larger projects, there are usually 4 steps to writing a test:

1. Set up the necessary objects
2. Execute the code against the object we're testing
3. Assert that the executed code did the right thing
4. Tear down and clean up any lingering artifacts

This is the SEAT approach
- In our previous tests, we've been doing steps 2 and 3

Let's take a look at our example:

```ruby
require 'minitest/autorun'

require_relative 'car'

class CarTest < MiniTest::Test

	def test_car_exists
		car = car.new
		assert(car)
	end

	def test_wheels
		car = Car.new
		assert_equal(4, car.wheels)
	end

	def test_name_is_nil
		car = Car.new
		assert_nil(car.name)
	end

	def test_raise_initialize_with_arg
		assert_raises(ArgumentError) do
			car = Car.new(name: "Joey")
		end
	end

	def test_instance_of_car
		car = Car.new
		assert_instance_of(Car, car)
	end

	def test_includes_car
		car = Car.new
		arr = [1, 2, 3]
		arr << car

		assert_includes(arr, car)
	end
end
```

Now take a look at the tests, and notice many of them have `car = Car.new`. 
- This is very redundant, and we should extract this to some set up step that gets executed before the running of every test.

In Minitest, we can do this with a `setup` instance method.
- Let's refactor to add a `setup` method

```ruby
require 'minitest/autorun'

require_relative 'car'

class CarTest < MiniTest::Test
  def setup
    @car = Car.new
  end

  def test_car_exists
    assert(@car)
  end

  def test_wheels
    assert_equal(4, @car.wheels)
  end

  def test_name_is_nil
    assert_nil(@car.name)
  end

  def test_raise_initialize_with_arg
    assert_raises(ArgumentError) do
      Car.new(name: "Joey")
    end
  end

  def test_instance_of_car
    assert_instance_of(Car, @car)
  end

  def test_includes_car
    arr = [1, 2, 3]
    arr << @car

    assert_includes(arr, @car)
  end
end
```

Note that in the `setup` method, we must now use an instance variable `@car`.
- We can't use a local variable in `setup`, because the tests, which are just instance methods, won't be able to access it
	- But they can access instance variables

Because we changed `car` to `@car`, we also have to make the same update in the actual tests.

Finally, note that we do not use `@car` in the `test_raise_initialize_with_arg` test, because we're using `Car.new` with arguments in this test.

The `setup` method is called before running each test, and the `teardown` method (which we don't have), will be called after running each test.
- In our case, we don't have any tear down activity, so it's not necessary.

In some cases, we will need a tear down for cleaning up files or logging some information, or closing database connections.

In the simplest cases, we won't need either set up or tear down.
- Keep in mind that there are 4 steps to running any test, and it is SEAT.
	- At the minimum you'll need EA, even if the E is just a simple test instantiation.