
It's time to get some practice writing tests.

Let's use the `TodoList` from before and write tests for it's public methods.

Below is a test template along with some practice problems. Copy/paste the below template into a new file called `todolist_test.rb`, and make sure the original `todolist.rb` is in the same directory so this test file can reference it.

You should be able to run the test template with no errors.

```ruby
require 'minitest/autorun'
require "minitest/reporters"
Minitest::Reporters.use!

require_relative 'todolist'

class TodoListTest < MiniTest::Test

  def setup
    @todo1 = Todo.new("Buy milk")
    @todo2 = Todo.new("Clean room")
    @todo3 = Todo.new("Go to gym")
    @todos = [@todo1, @todo2, @todo3]

    @list = TodoList.new("Today's Todos")
    @list.add(@todo1)
    @list.add(@todo2)
    @list.add(@todo3)
  end

  # Your tests go here. Remember they must start with "test_"

end
```

Note: lines 2 and 3 are referencing the `minitest-reporters` game. You'll either have to install this gem, or remove those lines.

Use the objects created in the `setup` method in each of the tests that you're going to write.
- For most of the tests that you'll write, that should be all you need.
- If you do need some other objects, feel free to create them in the test.
- Most tests will contain 1 assertion, but you can create more assertions if you feel it's necessary

In the practice problems below, some of the problem will only list the method name.
- You are to write a test to verify the behavior of this method.
- If you need to look at the solution, feel free to do so.
- Play around with it, and add an additional assertion if you wish.
- Look back at the list of assertions available to you.
	- Hint: you should be able to use `assert_equal` for the most part.

1. `to_a`

We'll show you the first one, and you can try on your own first in subsequent practice problems

```ruby
def test_to_a
	assert_equal(@todos, @list.to_a)
end
```

Remember to put this method in the `TodoListTest` class.

As you read the solutions, keep in mind the SEAT sequence.
- S is setup, and is being taken care of in the `setup` method, which gets executed before every test. E is execute, which is `@list.to_a`. A is assert, which is the `assert_equal`. We don't have a teardown.

Sometimes the E is a separate line of code (or for complicated assertions, it's several lines of code)
- But here, because the execution is simple, the code is executed within the assertion